STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
ADMINISTRATIVE RESOLUTION NO.1
PROCEDURES RELATIVE TO ASSESSMENTS
relating to collection of routine and delinquent payments
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and
WHEREAS, Article 5 of the Bylaws creates an assessment obligation for owners; and
WHEREAS, Article 9 of the Bylaws establishes certain provisions for the payment and collection of assessments; and
WHEREAS, there is a need to establish orderly procedures for the billing and collection of said
Assessments;


NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following assessment procedures be adopted:
I. ROUTINE COLLECTIONS
A. All monthly installments of the annual assessments shall be due and payable in advance on
the first day of the applicable month ("Due Date").
B. All documents, correspondence, and notices relating to the charges shall be mailed to the
address which appears on the books of the Association or as modified in writing by a Unit
Owner.
C. Nonreceipt of an invoice shall in no way relieve a Unit Owner of the obligation to pay the
amount due by the Due Date.
 
II. REMEDIES FOR NONPAYMENT OF ASSESSMENT
A. If payment is not received by the Managing Agent by the fifteenth (15th) day of each month
(or the first working day thereafter if such day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday) the
account shall be deemed late and a late fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per dwelling unit
shall automatically be added to the account and thereafter be a part of the continuing lien for
assessments as provided for in Article 5, Section 5.3 of the Bylaws until all sums due.
including such late charge, shall have been paid in full. A "Late Notice" substantially in the
form of Exhibit A to this Administrative Resolution shall be sent to Owners who have not
paid their assessments in full by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month.


B. If payment in full, including late charges, is not received by the Managing Agent by the
thirtieth (30th) day after the due date, a "Notice of intent to Accelerate Installments and File
a Memorandum of Lien" substantially in the form of Exhibit B to this Resolution shall be
mailed to the Unit Owners. The Managing Agent may simultaneously send a copy of such
Notice to the Mortgagee of such Unit, if known. The Notice shall be sent to the Unit Owner
by certified mail, return receipt requested.


C. If payment in full, including late charges and cost of the certified letter is not received by
the Managing Agent within thirty (30) days after the "Notice of Intent to Accelerate
Installments and File Lien" has been issued, then the remaining installments of the annual
assessment shall be accelerated and a lien shall be placed on the Unit. Counsel will so notify
Owner with a copy of the lien, and the Managing Agent shall notify the Mortgagee, if
known. Counsel may also file a civil suit against the Unit Owner on the basis of the
personal obligation to pay the assessments. The cost of filing both the lien and the civil suit
will be added to the account, plus accrued late fees, interest chargeable by law on the unpaid
assessment, and all other costs incurred by the collection process as allowed by Article 9 of
the Bylaws.


D. If within ten (10) days of the filling of the Memorandum of Lien the account still remains
delinquent, counsel for the Association shall take other appropriate legal action as directed
by the Board.


E. If the Association receives from any Owner, in any accounting year, two or more returned
checks for payment of assessments, the Board may require all future payments to be made
by certified check or cashier's check or money order for the remainder of the fiscal year. A
reasonable charge will be made for any returned checks, which amount shall be established
by the Board of Directors and may be changed by the Board from time to time.


F. The Board may grant a waiver of any provision herein upon petition in writing by an Owner
alleging a personal hardship. Such relief granted an Owner shall be appropriately
documented in the Association files. Such documentation shall include, without limitation,
the basis for taking such action. Generally, late charge waivers will not be considered for
owners who have not mailed their assessment in sufficient time to have been received by
the due date.


G. The Board hereby authorizes the Managing Agent to waive the imposition of late fees on
payments received by the Managing Agent after the fifteenth (15th) day of the month, if the
delinquent Unit Owner has owned the Unit for less than three (3) months at the time of the
delinquency and, in the judgment of the Managing Agent the delinquency was the result of
a misunderstanding of the correct procedures relating to payment of the assessment. Such a
waiver may be granted only once to any delinquent Unit Owner.