ADMINISTRATIVE RESOLUTION NO. 2
PROCEDURES FOR IN-UNIT SERVICE PROGRAM
relating to procedures for the conduct of in-unit work by
Association staff and payment for such work by unit owners.
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all
of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners
Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the
Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and


WHEREAS, for the convenience of unit owners the Board of Directors finds it desirable to
enable unit owners to use the services of the Association's maintenance staff for making minor 
repairs and improvements within the individual units; and
WHEREAS, there is a need to establish orderly procedures for the scheduling, billing and
collection of payments for in-unit service work;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following procedures for an in-unit service
program be adopted.
I. SCOPE OF IN-UNIT SERVICE WORK
A. The scope of services to be provided will be determined by the Association based on the
skills of Association maintenance staff and time constraints. In general, the services will be
confined to minor electrical, carpentry and other activities which can be classified as
"handyman services." Due to time constraints, activities which would require more than
several hours are discouraged.
B. The Association management staff shall have sole discretion to determine the type of in-unit
services which may be provided at any time.
II. SCHEDULING IN-UNIT SERVICE WORK
A. A unit owner who wants to schedule in-unit service work must complete an in-unit service
request with the Association office. The Association office will determine if the requested
service can be provided and, if so, will complete a work ticket for the Association's
maintenance staff.
B. All in-unit service work will be scheduled on a "first-come, first-served" basis.
C. Association maintenance responsibilities will at all times take precedence over in-unit
service work. The Association management staff will not schedule in-unit service work for
fixed dates or times and shall have sole discretion as to when such work shall be performed.
D. Unit owners who want to schedule in-unit services must provide a "convenience key" for
their unit and sign an acknowledgment form which states that Association maintenance staff
has permission to enter their unit. A "convenience key" may be left in the custody of the
Association office if the unit owner contemplates recurrent in-unit service work. In such
case, the key shall be coded and maintained in a locked key-box. Otherwise, the key shall
be obtained from the Association office upon completion of the in-unit service.
III. COMPLETION OF IN-UNIT SERVICE WORK
A. Upon the whole or partial completion of an in-unit service activity, Association
maintenance staff shall complete and leave in the unit a form which states the time of entry,
time of exit and status of the activity.
IV. BILLING AND COLLECTION OF IN-UNIT SERVICE FEES
A. The fee for in-unit service work shall be established by the Board of Directors and may be
adjusted from time-to-time. The initial fee for in-unit service shall be thirty dollars ($30.00)
per hour, with a minimum fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
B. In addition to the fee for personal services, unit owners shall be invoiced for the cost of any
supplies or materials required to perform in-unit service work.
C. Invoices shall be generated no later than the first day of each month for in-unit services
provided during the preceding month. Invoices are due and payable within fifteen (15) days
from the date of the invoice. In the event of non-payment by the end of the fifteen (15) day
period, a late fee charge equal to ten percent (10%) of the invoice shall be added to the
owner's account. No further requests for in-unit service work will be honored if a unit
owner has an outstanding balance.
D. If an in-unit service charge is not paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the invoice,
the amount owed shall be added to the unit owner's assessment account and shall be
enforced in the same manner as regular assessments.