ARTICLE. 4
Officers
Section 4.1. Designation and Duties. The principal Officers of the Unit Owners Association shall be the President, the Vice President, the Secretary and the Treasurer, all of whom shall be elected by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may appoint an assistant treasurer, an assistant secretary and such other Officers as in its judgment may be necessary. The President and Vice President shall be residents of the Condominium (except for those directors appointed by the Declarant) and members of the Board of Directors. Any other Officers may, but need not, be unit owners or directors. Each Officer shall perform such duties as are normally associated with such office in parliamentary organizations, except to the extent (if any) inconsistent with the Condominium Act or the condominium instruments, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to such office by resolution of the Board of Directors. If any Officer is unable for any reason to perform the duties of the office, the President (or the Board of Directors if the President fails to do so) may appoint another qualified person to act in such Officer's stead on an interim basis.
Section 4.2. Election of Officers. The Officers of the Unit Owners Association shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the organizational meeting of each new Board and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board. Any Officer may hold more than one position: provided, however, that the offices of President, Vice President and Secretary shall be held by three different individuals and that the President shall not simultaneously serve as the Treasurer. Except for death, resignation or removal, the Officers shall hold office until their respective successors shall have been elected by the Board.
Section 4. 3. Removal or Resignation of Officers. Upon the affirmative vote of a majority of all members of the Board of Directors any Officer may be removed, either with or without cause, and a successor may be elected at any regular meeting of the Board or at any special meeting of the Board called for such purpose. An Officer may resign as provided for a director in Section 3.5.
Section 4.4. President. The President shall: be the chief executive officer of the Unit Owners Association; preside at all meetings of the Association and of the Board of Directors; have general and active direction of the business of the Association subject to the control of the Board; see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are carried into effect; and appoint committees from time to time as the President may decide is appropriate to assist in the conduct of the affairs of the Association.
Section 4.5. Vice President. The Vice President shall take the place of the President and perform the duties of the President whenever the President shall be absent or unable to act. If neither the President nor the Vice President is able to act, the Board of Directors shall appoint some other director to act in the place of the President on an interim basis. The Vice President shall also perform such other duties as shall from time to time be imposed by the Board of Directors or by the President.
Section 4.6. Secretary. The Secretary shall: keep the minutes of all meetings of the Unit Owners Association and of the Board of Directors; have charge of such books and papers as the Board may direct; give or cause to be given all notices required to be given by the Association; maintain a register setting forth the place to which all notices to unit owners and Mortgagees hereunder shall be delivered; and, in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary.  Pursuant to section 55- 7 9.9 3:1 of the Condominium Act, after the termination of the Declarant Control Period, the Secretary shall file any required annual report with the Virginia Real Estate Board and pay the required fee. The Secretary may delegate the responsibility to file to a managing agent.
Section 4.7. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall (together with the managing agent): be responsible for Unit Owners Association funds and securities; keep full and accurate financial records and books of account showing all receipts and disbursements; prepare all required financial data; deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name of the Board of Directors, the Association or the managing agent, in such depositories as may from time to time be designated by the Board; and, in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer. The Treasurer shall ensure that the statements of account of the Association are reconciled no less than quarterly.
Section 4.8. Execution of Documents. Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors: (i) all agreements, contracts, deeds, leases, checks and other instruments of the Unit Owners Association for expenditures or obligations in excess of one percent of the total annual assessment for common expenses for that fiscal year, and all checks drawn upon reserve accounts, shall be executed by any two persons designated by the Board of Directors; and (ii) all such instruments for expenditures or obligations of one percent of the total annual assessment for common expenses for that fiscal year or less, except from reserve accounts, may be executed by any one person designated by the Board of Directors. Any Officer of the Association may be designated by Board reso­lution to sign any certification pursuant to section 5 5-79.7 1D or section 5 5-79.7 2:1C of the Condominium Act and to sign Certificates for Resale on behalf of the Association. Any Officer may also be designated by Board resolution to sign any amendment to subdivide a unit or relocate boundaries between units on behalf of the Association or at the request of a unit owner, pursuant to section 5 5-79.69 or 5 5-79.70 of the Condominium Act.
Section 4.9. Compensation of Officers. No Officer who is also a director shall receive any compensation from the Unit Owners Association for acting as such Officer.