ARTICLE 2
Unit Owners Association
Section 2.1. Composition. The Unit Owners Association consists of all of the unit owners. For all purposes the Association acts merely as an agent for the unit owners as a group. The Association has the responsibility of administering the Condominium, establishing the means and methods of collecting assessments and charges, arranging for the management of the Condominium and performing all of the other acts that may be required or permitted to be performed by the Association by the Condominium Act and the Declaration. Except as to those matters which the Condominium Act specifically requires to be decided by the vote of the Association, the foregoing responsibilities shall be performed by the Board of Directors or managing agent as more particularly set forth in Article 3.
Section 2.2. Annual Meetings. The annual meetings of the Unit Owners Association shall be held on weekdays (other than legal holidays) at least forty-five days before the beginning of each fiscal year. The first meeting of the Association shall be held within one year after there is a unit owner other than the Declarant.
Section 2.3. Place of Meetings. Meetings of the Unit Owners Association shall be held at the principal office of the Association or at such other suitable place convenient to the unit owners as may be designated by the Board of Directors.
Section 2.4. Special Meetings. (a) The President shall call a special meeting of the Unit Owners Association: (i) if so directed by resolution of the Board of Directors; (ii) after the termination of the Declarant Control Period, upon a petition signed and presented to the Secretary by unit owners of units to which not less 'than twenty-five percent of the total Common Element Interest appertains; or (iii) during the Declarant Control Period, upon request of the Declarant The signatures on a petition requesting a special meeting shall be valid for a period of one hundred-eighty days after the date of the first such signature. Such resolution, petition or request must (1) specify the time and place at which meeting is to be held, (2) either specify a date on which the meeting is to be held which will permit the Secretary to comply with Section 2.5, or else specify that the Secretary shall designate the date of the meeting, (3) specify the purposes for which the meeting is to be held, and (4) be delivered to the Secretary. The notice of any special meeting shall state the time, place and purpose thereof. No business shall be transacted at a special meeting except as stated in the notice.
(b)         Not later than the termination of the Declarant Control Period, a special meeting of the Association shall be held at which a majority of the directors shall be elected by the unit owners, including the Declarant if the Declarant owns any units, to serve terms as provided in Section 3. 3. If such election is held prior to the time required by this section, the directors elected at such election shall not take office until the earlier of the time such election is required to be held or resignation of a director appointed by the Declarant without appointment of a replacement within ten days. The elected directors shall assume office in the order of the highest number of votes received. Any remaining directors designated by the Declarant shall continue to serve until their terms expire.
Section 2. 5. Notice of Meetings. The Secretary shall notify each unit owner of each annual or regularly scheduled meeting of the unit owners at least twenty-one but not more than thirty days, and of each special meeting of the unit owners at least seven but not more than thirty days, prior to such meeting, stating the time, place and purpose thereof. The giving of a notice of meeting in the manner provided in this section and Section 1 1.1 constitutes service of notice.
Section 2.6. Quorum and Adjournment of Meetings. Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, the presence in person or by proxy of unit owners owning units to which twenty-five percent or more of the total Common Element Interest appertains constitutes a quorum at all meetings of the Unit Owners Association. If at any meeting of the Association a quorum is not present, unit owners of a majority of the Common Element Interests who are present at such meeting in person or by proxy may: (i) recess the meeting to such date, time and place as such unit owners may agree not more than forty-eight hours after the time the original meeting was called; or (ii) adjourn the meeting to a time not less than forty-eight hours after the time the original meeting was called, whereupon the Secretary shall make reasonable efforts to notify unit owners of such date, time and place.
Section 2.7. Order of Business. The order of business at all meetings of the Unit Owners Association shall be as follows: (a) roll call (proof of quorum); (b) proof of notice of meeting; (c) reading of minutes of preceding meeting; (d) reports of officers; {e) report of Board of Directors; {f) reports of committees; (g) appointment of inspectors of election (when so required); (h) election of directors (when so required); (i) unfinished business; and 0) new business; provided, however, that balloting for election of directors may commence at any time.
Section 2.8. Conduct of Meetings. The President shall preside over all meetings of the Unit Owners Association and the Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meeting and record in a minute book all resolutions adopted at the meeting, as well as a record of all transactions occurring at the meeting. The President may appoint a person to serve as parliamentarian at any meeting of the Association. The then current edition of Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, shall govern the conduct of all meetings of the Association when not in conflict with the Condominium Act or the condominium instruments. Tellers, appointed by the President or other Officer presiding over the meeting, shall supervise the tallying of all votes, and the names and addresses of the tellers shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
Section 2.9. Voting. (a) Voting at all meetings of the Unit Owners Association shall be on a percentage basis and the percentage of the vote to · which each unit owner is entitled shall be the Common Element Interest assigned to such unit owner's unit in the Declaration. Where the ownership of a unit is in more than one person, the person entitled to cast the vote of such unit shall be the person named in a certificate signed by all of the owners of such unit and filed with the Secretary (if such a certificate is on file) or, in the absence of such named person from the meeting, the person entitled to cast the vote of such unit shall be the person owning such unit who is present. If more than one person owning such unit is present, then such vote shall be cast only in accordance with their unanimous agreement pursuant to section 55-79.77(c) of the Condominium Act. If a unit owner is not a natural person, the vote for such unit may be cast by any natural person having authority to sign deeds on behalf of any person, excluding natural persons, which is, either alone or in conjunction with one or more other persons, a unit owner: provided, however, that such natural person is named in a certificate signed by an authorized officer of such person; and, provided, further, that any vote cast by a natural person on behalf of such unit owner shall be deemed valid unless successfully challenged prior to adjournment of the meeting at which such vote was cast. Such certificate shall be valid until revoked by a subsequent certificate similarly signed and filed. Subject to the requirements of the Condominium Act, wherever the approval or disapproval of a unit owner is required by the Condominium Act or the condominium instruments, such approval or disapproval shall be made only by the person who would be entitled to cast the vote of such unit at any meeting of the Unit Owners Association. There shall be no cumulative voting.
(b)              Except where a greater number is required by the Condominium Act or the condominium instruments, a Majority Vote is required to adopt decisions at any meeting of the Association. If the Declarant owns or holds title to a unit, the Declarant shall have the right at any meeting of the Association to cast the vote appurtenant to such unit.
(c)               No unit owner may vote at any meeting of the Association or be elected to or serve on the Board of Directors if payment by such unit owner of any financial obligation to the Association is delinquent more than sixty days and the amount necessary to bring the account current has not been paid at the time of such meeting or election.
Section 2. 10. Proxies. A vote may be cast in person or by proxy. A proxy may be instructed (directing the proxy how to vote) or uninstructed (leaving how to vote to the proxy's discretion). Proxies shall include a brief explanation of the affect of leaving the proxy uninstructed to the extent required by section 55-79.770. Proxies may be granted by any unit owner in favor of only: (i) another unit owner, an Officer, the Declarant or such unit owner's Mortgagee, or (ii) additionally in the case of a non-resident unit owner, the unit owner's lessee, attorney or rental agent. No person other than the Declarant, the managing agent or an Officer shall cast votes as a proxy for more than one unit not owned by such person; provided, however, that no Officer shall cast votes as an uninstructed proxy for more than five units not owned by such person and provided, further, that a Mortgagee or an attorney or a rental agent for a nonresident unit owner may cast votes as proxy for as many units as such person represents. Proxies shall be signed by the unit owner, shall be witnessed, shall contain the full name and address of the witness, shall be dated, shall be signed by a person having ·authority at the time of the execution thereof to sign deeds on behalf of that person, shall terminate after the first meeting held on or after the date of that proxy or any recess or adjournment of that meeting held within thirty days and shall be filed with the Secretary. Such proxy shall be deemed revoked only upon actual receipt by the person presiding over the meeting of notice of revocation from any of the persons owning such unit. Except with respect to proxies in favor of a Mortgagee, no proxy shall in any event be valid for a period in excess of one hundred and eighty days after the date the proxy is signed.