ARTICLE 11
Miscellaneous
Section 11 .1 . Notices.  All notices, demands, bills, statements or other communications under these Bylaws shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or sent by United States mail, postage prepaid (pursuant to section 55-79.75 of -the Condominium Act), or if notification is of a default or lien, sent by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, (i) if to a unit owner, at the address which the unit owner shall designate in writing and file with the Secretary or, if no such address is designated, at the address of such unit owner's unit, or (ii) if to the Unit Owners Association, the Board of Directors or to the managing agent, at the principal office . of the managing agent or at such other address as shall be designated by notice in writing to the unit owners pursuant to this section. If a unit is owned by more than one person, each such person who so designates an address in writing to the Secretary shall be entitled to receive all notices hereunder.
Section 11 .2. Captions. The captions are inserted only as a matter of convenience and for reference, and in no way define, limit or describe the scope of these Bylaws or the intent of any provision.
Section 11 .3. Gender. The use of the masculine gender in these Bylaws shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders and the use of the singular shall be deemed to include the plural, and vice versa, whenever the context so requires.
Section 11.4. Construction. These condominium instruments are intended to comply with all of the applicable provisions of the Condominium Act and shall be so interpreted and applied. The failure to comply strictly with the time periods required by the condominium instruments, unless also required by the condominium Act, shall not invalidate any action of the Board of Directors or the Unit Owners Association in the absence of a written objection by the Declarant, a unit owner or a Mortgagee within ten days after the failure to comply.