STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM 
UNIT OWNERS ASSOCIATION 
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 29
(Winterization and Care of Vacant Units)
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws for Stratford Condominium Unit.
Owners Association ("Association") provides that the Board of Directors ("Board") shall have
all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Association and
may do all such acts and things as are not by the Virginia Condominium Act ("Act") or the
condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association; and
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3. 1 (f) of the Bylaws empowers the Board to adopt and
amend rules and regulations in accordance with Section 5,8 (b); provided, however, that such
rules and regulations shall not be in conflict with the Condominium Act m· the condominium
instruments; and
WHEREAS, Article 5, Section 5. 5(c) of the Bylaws provides that each Unit Owner shall
be responsible for keeping his/her Unit and its appliances and appurtenances in good order and
condition; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Article 9, Section 9.1 (a) of the Bylaws, a Unit Owner shall be
responsible to the Association for costs of maintenance, repair and replacement which is due to
the act, neglect or carelessness of the Unit Owner if those expenses are not covered by the
Association's insurance policy proceeds; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that it is imperative for Unit Owners
to winterize their vacant Units in order to prevent the freezing of pipes and resultant water
damage.
NOW THEREFORE the Board of Directors hereby adopts the foregoing winterization
policy, which shall take effect immediately:
1.           The term "vacant" as used in this policy shall mean Units that are unoccupied.
          The term "vacant" shall also mean Units where the Unit Owner or resident is
         absent from the Unit for a period of five (5) consecutive days.
2.           All Unit Owners who own a Unit that will be vacant at any time during the
         period of November 15 through March 15 are required to winterize their Unit
         by setting and maintaining the HVAC system in the Unit to no less than 65
         degrees Fahrenheit to prevent the freezing of pipes and resultant water
         damage.
3.           Unit Owners are encouraged to notify the management office about periods of
         extended vacancy of their Units beyond a week. During such extended vacancies, the 
         Unit Owner shall take the following action to ensue
         appropriate on-going maintenance of the Unit:


a .  Dispose in a location outside of the Unit of all perishable items which may
spoil during the vacancy to avoid pests and smells.
b.  Securing all windows and access doors.
c.  Ensuring that a pass key to the Unit is on file with the Association for
emergency access needs only, which is an on-going responsibility of all Unit
Owners regardless of vacancies of Units.
d.  Providing the current off-site addresses, phone numbers and email addresses
to the management staff for Association communications during the period of
vacancy.
4.           While the Unit is vacant, Unit Owners are encouraged to leave room and
cabinet and closet doors open to promote heat circulation in the Unit. In
extreme cold weather (temperatures below 32 degrees Fahrenheit) closets door
should stay open to allow heat circulation even when the Unit is occupied.
5.               If a Unit Owner with a vacant Unit fails to winterize a Unit within five days of
                             receipt of a request from the Board of Directors or the Managing Agent based
                           on the terms of this Policy Resolution, the Board of Directors reserves the
right to enter the Unit without additional notice to take any and all necessary
steps to winterize the Unit. All costs incurred by the Association to winterize
the Unit shall be assessed to the Unit Owner.
       (6)                  Any Unit Owner who fails to winterize their vacant Unit as provided above
                           shall be responsible for any and all damages that result therefrom, excepting in
                           the case of application of insurance proceeds.


This Resolution is enacted this 12. day of October, 2023. 
STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM                 UNIT OWNERS ASSOCIATION
By:
President