STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 3
ADMINISTRATIVE RESOLUTIONS


relating to the process of considering 
and adopting Administrative Resolutions
 
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of
the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association
and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium
instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and


WHEREAS, the Board deems it necessary to establish appropriate procedures for adopting and
recording Administrative Resolutions of the Board; and


WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Directors to institute such rules and procedures;


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following procedures for the adoption of
Administrative Resolutions be adopted:
 
I. PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION
The Board member introducing the resolution(s) shall provide the proposed resolution(s) to each Board member at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to the Board meeting at which it is to be considered and shall present the proposed Administrative Resolution(s) at the Board meeting. The proposed resolution(s) shall be set forth in or attached to the minutes of the Board meeting. Unless otherwise noted in the minutes, all Board members shall be deemed to be aware of the contents of the resolution by virtue of such prior distribution.
The secretary will review the proposed resolution for consistency with previously-adopted resolutions and make a report to the Board. Legal counsel may be consulted as to compliance with applicable law and consistency with the Condominium Instruments. The proposed resolution may be amended and/or adopted by a majority vote of the Directors at a meeting at which a quorum is present. If the resolution is adopted, it shall be placed in the Book of Resolutions.
II. DURATION
Administrative Resolutions shall remain in effect until repeal or any subsequent amendment by the Board, unless a lesser period is stated in the resolution. The secretary shall place on the agenda of the Board consideration of any resolution due to expire forty-five ( 45) days prior to its stated expiration, if such is the case. If the resolution is not reviewed prior to expiration, the resolution shall remain in effect until reviewed.
III. AMENDMENT
Administrative Resolutions may be amended by the Board of Directors with a majority vote of Directors at a meeting at which a quorum is present.