STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 2
POLICY RESOLUTIONS
relating to the process of considering and adopting Policy Resolutions
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and
WHEREAS, the Board deems it necessary to establish appropriate procedures for adopting and recording Policy Resolutions of the Board; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Directors to institute such rules and procedures;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following procedures for the adoption of Policy Resolutions be adopted:
I. FIRST READING
The Board member introducing the resolution(s) shall provide the proposed resolution(s) to each Board member at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to the Board meeting at which it is to be introduced and shall present the proposed resolution(s) at the Board meeting. The proposed resolution(s) shall be set forth in or attached to the minutes of the Board meeting. Unless otherwise noted in the minutes, all Board members shall be deemed to be aware of the contents of the resolution by virtue of such prior distribution. At that meeting the Board shall set a time, date, and place, such time to be no less than forty-five ( 45) days thereafter, for a hearing on the proposed resolution(s).
II. PUBLICATION
The proposed Policy Resolution or a reasonable summary thereof shall be printed in the Association newsletter, or shall be distributed to all Owners with notice of the time, date, place, and agenda of the hearing as set by the Board.
III. CONSISTENCY
The secretary shall be responsible for reviewing the proposed resolution for consistency with previously-adopted resolutions and shall submit a report at the hearing. Legal counsel may be consulted as to compliance with applicable law and consistency with the Condominium Instruments.
IV. HEARING
Printed copies of the agenda, which shall include consideration of the proposed resolution, shall be available at the hearing. Copies of the full resolution shall be available at the hearing. Owners or their representatives shall have an opportunity to comment on the proposed resolution, subject to the guidelines announced at the beginning of the hearing. The Board may delegate to an appropriate committee the authority to conduct the meeting.
V. BOARD ACTION
At a meeting of the Board, to be held not later than its next regularly scheduled meeting from the date of the hearing, the Board shall take action on the proposed Policy Resolution. To be adopted, the resolution must be approved by a majority vote of the Board of Directors. If the resolution is adopted, the Board shall announce the adoption in the official newsletter or mail or deliver to each owner a special announcement. The full resolution or a summary of the resolution shall be included in the newsletter or special announcement. An executed copy of the full resolution shall be placed in the Book of Resolutions. Any modifications, adoptions or annulments will require a republication by the Board within seven (7) days after the meeting, but are not subject again to the hearing process.
VI. WAIVER
Policy Resolutions adopted by the initial Board of Directors appointed by the Declarant shall not be subject to procedures I through IV above. The Board shall provide prompt and adequate notice to Owners of the existence of such resolutions and their content.
VII. DURATION
The effective date of resolutions adopted by the Board shall be fourteen days after the day of publication to the community. Policy Resolutions shall remain in effect until such time as repealed or amended by the Board of Directors.
VIII. AMENDMENT
To substantively amend a Policy Resolution, the Board will follow the procedures for adoption of a Policy Resolution.