STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 24
Policy Updated and Approved by BOD 12-18-2014
STRATFORD COURT MOVING POLICY
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and WHEREAS, for the health, safety, welfare, comfort, and convenience of all Owner/Residents, the Board wishes to establish additional regulations for Stratford Court moves; NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following Rules and Regulations for Stratford Court Moves be adopted:
Definition of a Move
Move-in or move-out is defined as the moving of household items or any single item that requires a hand truck and more than one person to move into a unit, or the moving of household items and/or personal belongings into or out of the building associated with the beginning or end of the occupancy of a unit by an individual owner / resident.
Dates and Times
1.  Moves will be permitted Monday through Saturday.
2.  Moves will not be permitted Sunday and/or Federal holidays.
3.  Moves may sta1t at 9:00 a.m. and must conclude by 5:00 p.m. on Monday- Friday.
4.  Moves may start at 10:00 a.m. and must conclude by 4:00 p.m. on Saturday.
5.  Only one move per building may be scheduled at any one time. Moves will be scheduled on a first-come, first serve basis.
6.  In buildings with only one elevator, fellow residents will have priority access to the elevator.
Fee and Deposit
1.  Requests for a move must be made to Stratford Management at least three business days prior to the move.
2.  A non-refundable move-in fee of $400.00, and a refundable deposit of $500.00 must be submitted to Stratford Management at least three business days prior to the move. Payment must be made by check payable to Stratford Condominium.                         Note: The intent of the non-refundable fee is to cover costs of setting up and concluding the move. The intent of the refundable deposit is to pay for any damage caused by the move.
3.  If no damage occurs, Stratford Management will return the $500,00 deposit check to the owner/resident within three business days after the move.
4.  If damage occurs, Stratford Management will provide a written estimate for the cost of the repairs within ten business days after the move.
5.  Payment for the repairs will be deducted from the $500.00 deposit. Any remaining refundable deposit will be returned to the owner within ten business days. Any costs above $500.00 will be charged to the owner and payment will be due within ten business days.
6.  The owner whose unit is being moved into or moved out of will be liable for all costs incurred by the Association in repairing any damage to or performing any cleanup of the common elements, including disposal of any trash that results from a move.
Day of Move Procedure
1.  Prior to the move, Stratford Management will be responsible for inspecting the areas to be used during the move, preparing the elevator and the garage door.
2.  All moves must take place through the garage entrance. Under no circumstances are moves to take place through the front entry doors or over balcony railings.
3.  Owner/resident or their agent will be responsible for ensuring the carpeted areas along the path of travel from the elevator to the unit entrance are protected.
4.  All packing materials, empty boxes, and debris generated by the move are to be broken down and placed in the trash room in the garage. Floor surfaces in the area are to be swept clean. No debris is to be left in the corridors, lobbies, or trash rooms on individual floors.
5.  Owner/resident or their agent will be responsible for directing movers to ensure compliance with Association rules and regulations.
6.  Immediately following the move, the owner/resident or their agent will be responsible for notifying Stratford Management that the move is complete. Stratford Management will conduct a post inspection to determine whether damage has occurred.
7.  Following the move, Stratford Management will be responsible for preparing the building for regular use by unlocking the elevator and securing the garage door.
NOTE for Move Outs:
1.  Move outs will not incur a fee. However, a deposit check for $500.00 will be required.
2.  Move outs will follow all moving procedures as previously noted in this policy.