STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 15
USE OF COMMON AREAS: STRATFORD HOUSE SOCIAL ROOM
Relating to Rules and Regulations for use and rental of the Stratford House Social Room
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and
WHEREAS, the Board deems it necessary and desirable to establish certain rules, procedures and guidelines for the use of the Stratford House Social Room.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following Rules and Regulations for the use of the Stratford House Social Room be adopted:
I. ELIGIBLE USE
In general, the facility shall be for the exclusive use of Stratford House residents, their guests, and invitees, through programs sponsored by the Association, for duly constituted Association committees, and other groups as may be called together by the Association from time to time to participate in Association activities or to pursue Association business. Applicants for the use of the facility must be current members or residents of the Association who are current in their monthly dues and in good standing.
First priority for use of the facility will be given to the official bodies of the Association, including the Board of Directors, advisory committees or other Association sanctioned groups with regularly scheduled meetings and/or functions. Otherwise, scheduling of the facility for approved events/ management office.
 At times which do not conflict or interfere with activities sponsored by the Association, the "Social Room” may be reserved for private use by any Association resident for the use of that resident and his or her guests and invitees so long as the reserving resident is in good standing, ("good standing" is defined as being current with respect to assessment payments owed to the Association and having no outstanding violation of the rules and regulations of the Association) and so long as the resident is in attendance during the reserved time for use of the facility.
The Social Room is not conducive to more than one meeting/function at a time; therefore no two events will be held simultaneously
II. OCCUPANCY
All use of the facility must conform to the occupancy limits as designated by the Fire Marshall.
III. PRE-USE AND POST-USE INSPECTIONS
For all reserved uses of the Social Room, except by the Association's Board of Directors, duly constituted Association committees, and designated Association sponsored activities, there will be a pre-use inspection of the center by the reserving resident and a designated representative of the Association, and all center defects within the space to be used will be noted on an inspection form.
Immediately before to and following the reserved use of the Social Room, an inspection of the facility will be conducted by a designated representative of the Association to ascertain if any new damage has been sustained by the center as a result of the reserving resident's use of the facility. The judgment of the Association's designated representative or the Association's managing agent in all decisions is final, with appeal to the Association's Board of Directors.
Association representatives authorized to conduct pre-use and post .. use inspections may include members of the Board of Directors, representatives of the Association's managing agent, or any such persons authorized by the Board of Directors to perform such inspections.
IV. LIMITS ON TIMES OF USE
The Social Room may be reserved for private functions on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings, subject to the hours of rental listed below. All reserved use of the facility must end, the Social Room must be cleaned, and vacated no later than 10:00 PM Weekdays and Sunday evening, and 12:00 AM of the morning following Friday and Saturday evenings. The official permitted hours of reserved use may be changed by the Board of Directors from time to time by General Resolution duly adopted. In addition, the Board of Directors has the authority to extend the hours of availability for Association sponsored events. The normal hours of availability of the Social Room for reserved use are listed below:
Monday- Friday 10:00AM- 4:00PM
 Monday- Friday 7:00PM-10:00PM
Saturday  1:00PM-12:00AM
 Sunday   1:00PM - 10:00PM
The Social Room must be cleaned and vacated by the Agreement holder(s) and their guests no later than 60 minutes after the designated end time of the reserved time period and, in any event, no later than the times stipulated above. Failure to do so may result in a charge for an additional hour of use of the center.
V. GENERAL CONDITIONS OF USE
Any Stratford House resident wishing to reserve the Social Room for private use shall contact the Stratford House management office to check availability for the requested date and time at least three (3) weeks prior to the requested date. If the requested time slot is available, the managing agent will reserve the time slot and prepare and send an Association Social Room Rental Agreement (hereinafter "Agreement") application to the applicant to be completed, signed, and returned for approval. The Agreement is non-transferable. Such agreement shall be binding on the reserving resident (hereinafter "Agreement holder"). Only an Association resident may enter into such agreement with the Association. Conditions of use are detailed below:
1.  Except where such fees are incidental to Association-sponsored activities, no admission fees nor any fund transfers which might be construed as admission fees whatsoever shall be collected for use of the center by the Agreement holder.
2.  Any event or activity intended to be primarily attended by persons under 21 years of age shall be attended by a minimum of two chaperoning residents of the· Association whose names and signatures will appear on the Association Social Room Rental Agreement application. Additional chaperons are required at a rate of one (1) adult chaperon per ten (10) youths attending the event, or any pol1ion thereof. As indicated in the Rental application the individuals whose names appear on the rental application must be present for the duration of the event. Absolutely no alcohol is permitted at such events.
3.  All Association chairs, tables, and equipment shall be returned to proper storage areas following each reserved use, and under no circumstances shall chairs, tables, or other equipment belonging to the Association be removed from the Social Room.
4.  If decorations, auxiliary lights, or sound equipment are contemplated for use during any reserved time, the Association's managing agent shall be notified three (3) days in advance. The managing agent reserves the right to conduct an inspection of the decorations or equipment to be used by a representative of the Fairfax County Fire Department or by a licensed electrician. A fee to cover the cost of such inspection shall be levied against the Agreement holder.
5.  Absolutely no objects, such as nails, tacks, scotch tape, candles, or substances which cause permanent damage shall be placed on the walls, ceilings, 01· window surfaces. Any and all decorations shall be fireproof, and shall be removed entirely immediately following the reserved use of the Social Room. Under no circumstances shall any group make any structural or electrical alterations to the center, except by written permission from the Association Board of Directors.
6.  Paints, acids, and all other supplies and materials which present a clear damage potential are prohibited from the Social Room during times of reserved use.
7.  All refuse and personal property of the Applicant( s) and their guests and invitees shall be removed from the Social Room immediately following the reserved use of the facility.
8.  Each Agreement holder shall be personally responsible for knowing the location of and proper use of the fire extinguishers.
9.  A Fairfax County noise ordinance prohibits loud noise at any time which might disturb the surrounding community, and the Agreement holder is required to adhere to the requirements of this ordinance.
10.  The designated Association representative is permitted to attend all events/functions only in a manner to monitor compliance with the Agreement and Association rules and regulations.
11.  The Stratford House pool facility and exercise facilities are not included in the Rental Agreement
12.  Smoking is not permitted in the Social Room.
13.  The Social room may not be used at any time as a gym or exercise room.
14.  Pets shall not be permitted in the Social Room at any time.
VI. RESERVATION PROCEDURES
Any Stratford House Association resident wishing to reserve the Social Room for private use shall follow the procedures below:
1. Contact the Community Manager at the Stratford House management office to check availability for the requested date and time at least three (3) weeks prior to the requested date. If the time slot is available, the managing agent will reserve the time slot and prepare and send a Stratford House Rental Agreement application (hereinafter "Agreement") and a Rental Agreement Holder Responsibilities Acknowledgement (EXHIBIT C) to the applicant. The managing agent will advise the applicant that the security deposit must be remitted in the form of cash or personal check, and that there is a preference that the rental fee also be provided in one of those forms.
2. The applicant shall sign the Agreement and Rental Agreement Holder Responsibilities Acknowledgement and return both documents, along with cash or two personal checks made payable to "Stratford Condominium" for the rental fee and security deposit, to the managing agent within five (5) business days of the applicants receipt of the documents. The signed Agreement and the two checks or other form of payment should be delivered to the Stratford House management office.
3. The Community Manager staff will transmit to the applicant a ratified copy of the Agreement confirming the reserved date and time.
NOTE: The Social Room shall be officially reserved when the Agreement holder has delivered to the Community Manager a signed Rental Agreement together with the appropriate security deposit payment and a payment in full fo1· the appropriate rental fee and has received a copy of the Agreement confirming the reservation through signature of the managing agent's authorized representative. If such payments are reservation shall be canceled.If payment of the rental fee is made by personal check for which there are insufficient funds, the Community Manager shall immediately inform the applicant that the reservation is canceled. Such agreement shall be binding on the Agreement 
VII. SALES OF ALCOHOL
Sale of alcohol in the Social Room is absolutely prohibited, both through the direct sale of beverages or through the charging of an admission fee for a function at which alcoholic beverages shall be served.
VIII. FEES AND DEPOSITS
AND THE PROCESSING OF FEES AND DEPOSITS
Each Rental Agreement submitted to the Association for use of the Social Room shall be subject to review and approval by the Managing Agent 01· the Board of Directors. The Association reserves the right to review all requests for reserved use of the Social Room and may deny any request if such use is deemed to put the Social Room, its property, or guests at unusual risk, or if such use of the Social Room is deemed to be contrary to the best interests of the Association.
A. Association Sponsored Events and Association Sanctioned Events
• Association Sponsored Events: 
There is no rental charge for events scheduled and conducted by the Association or one of its committees provided that such activities or events have been approved by the Board of Directors.
• Association Sanctioned Events:
There is no rental charge for social events which are approved by the Board of Directors as a sanctioned activity but which are not directly sponsored by the Association. Such events could be sponsored by sanctioned clubs or other groups. Attendance at such sanctioned events shall be exclusively members of the Stratford Condominium. An individual(s) requesting to sponsor the event is subject to the appropriate security deposit and reservation procedures as non-Association sponsored events.
B. RENTAL FEE:
$125 flat fee to include the first Four hours and $25 fee for each addition hour. (hours are not pro .. ratable)
The rental fee is designed to cover the cost of monthly cleaning ( draperies, dusting, etc.), normal wear and tear, the electric and water consumption resulting from the use of the facilities by residents and the services of a monitor to open and secure the Clubhouse. All rental fee payments to the Association will be immediately deposited in an Association bank account.
C. SECURITY DEPOSITS: Must be paid in the form of a personal check or cash.
• All Events $500.00
Security deposits will be held by the Association's Managing Agent pending the post-use inspection results. The Managing Agent will deposit personal checks in an escrow account. In the event that a check is returned for insufficient funds, the reservation will be rescinded unless the personal check is replaced by a money order or cashiers check. Refund of a security deposit amount shall be made within ten (10) business days following the date of  satisfactory condition and no other Association rules or city ordinance have been violated. The refund of the deposit will be made payable to the first persons' name appearing on the Agreement.
D. CANCELLATIONS:
If a function is canceled within 10 business days of the reserved use date, a $20.00 administrative fee charge will be deducted from the applicable rental fees and/or security deposit which have been collected and the balance refunded. All events canceled more than 1 0 business days prior to the reserved use date and events canceled by the Association will result in a full refund of all rental fees and deposits collected.
E. HANDLING OF DEPOSITS IN THE EVENT OF DAMAGES/OTHER
The Association reserves the right to deduct from the security deposit an amount necessary to cover any costs of cleanup, if warranted, and shall also deduct the costs of repairs or replacement of any property damaged during the use of the center. If the security deposit does not fully cover these costs, the Agreement holder shall be billed for the difference, and future use of any of the Association's facilities shall be denied until these costs are paid. Any Agreement holder using the Social Room shall be responsible for any and all damages that occur due to its use of the facility. The billed costs will be considered a special assessment and if not paid could result in a lien being placed against the Agreement holder's home.
 If the Agreement holder fails to comply with any and all stipulations of the Rental Agreement or the Agreement holder or any of his or her guests or invitees fails to comply with the Association's policies, rules and regulations 01· other legal document provisions or any applicable law the Association reserves the right to deduct any portion ( or all) of the paid security deposit made by the Agreement holder. In addition, further use of Association facilities may be denied for a period of time established by the Board of Directors.
Where warranted, the Association's Managing Agent shall make final determinations on total fees required of the Agreement holder in cases of questions over the cancellation of a reserved use or any similar dispute related to fees owed by an Agreement holder. In such event, further scheduling of the Clubhouse may be denied until all fees are paid.
IX. LIABILITY
The Association, its trustees, agents, officers, and employees assume no responsibility for the personal property of anyone using the Social Room during times of reserved use. The Agreement holder will remove all such property from the premises at the conclusion of the reserve use unless prior arrangements have been made with the managing agent of the designated Association 
The Agreement holder and all users of the Social Room during a time of reserved use will be responsible for compliance and adherence to the Association's Declaration or Covenants and Bylaws, including all amendments thereto, the Rules and Regulations of the Association and all specifications of the Rental Agreement.
It is understood that the Agreement Holder agrees to indemnify the Association, its trustees, officers, agents and employees, and save them harmless from and against any and all liability, damage, expense, cause of action, suits, claims or judgments arising from injury to persons or property occurring in or about the premises and upon the adjoining sidewalks, streets or ways which may arise from the Association's ownership of the premises, from any action or omission of the Agreement holder its agents, employees, invitees, or licensees, or from any cause whatsoever.