STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 5
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
Relating to Enforcement of the Rules and Regulations and Legal Documents
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and
WHEREAS, Article 9, Section 9.1 (g) of the Bylaws provides that the Association may impose fines and penalties for violations of the Association's Legal Documents or rules and regulations adopted by the Board; and
WHEREAS, the Board deems it necessary and desirable to establish and follow procedures to assure reasonable and timely enforcement of the legal documents and rules and regulations of the Association:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the procedures detailed below be adopted by the Board.
I. ENFORCEMENT OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS
A.          Written Complaint. Any member or resident may initiate the enforcement process by filing a written complaint with the Association's Managing Agent, the Covenants Committee or the Board of Directors. 
The complaint must include a concise statement of charges setting forth in clear language the specific act(s) or omission(s) with which the offending party is to be charged. The complaint should be as specific as possible with respect to times, dates, places and persons involved. All complaints must be signed by the Complainant.
B. Preliminary Investigation. Upon receipt and consideration of the complaint, the Managing Agent or a member of the Covenants Committee or Board of Directors may make a preliminary investigation as to the validity of the complaint. If the condition has been corrected, or the complaint is invalid for any reason, the Managing Agent shall respond in writing to the Complainant in writing. If the preliminary investigation indicates the need for further action, the Managing Agent may proceed as appropriate. If it is questionable as to whether a violation exists, the Managing Agent or member of the Covenants Committee or the Board of Directors shall ask the Committee or Board to investigate and provide direction.
C. Notice. If preliminary investigation indicates further action is necessary, the Managing Agent shall mail a written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the alleged offender at the alleged offender's address listed on the records of the Association and to the property address, if the record address is different. In instances when certified mail is refused or not picked up, notification shall be deemed effective two days after mailing.
If the violation is not of an urgent nature, as determined by the Managing Agent or the Board, an informal notice may be sent prior to the certified notice. 
Written notice to an alleged offender shall advise the alleged offender of the nature of the offense, the identity of the specific provision within the legal documents which has allegedly been offended, the specific remedy required, and the number of days by which corrective action must be begun or completed in order to preclude the possible imposition of a penalty or remedy.
II. ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
If written notice to the alleged offender does not result in an abatement of the alleged offense, the Covenants Committee or the Board of Directors may pursue enforcement remedies, which may include the following measures:
1.    The levying of monetary charges in an amount which is the lesser of $50.00 or one percent of the annual condominium fee for a single offense or $10.00 per day for any continuing offense, such monetary charges to be treated as an assessment against the offending member's lot. Fines shall not exceed a total of$500.00 for each offense.
2.           Suspend or revoke the right of a unit owner to use the Association's recreation facilities for a reasonable period of time.
3.           Enjoin, abate or remedy by appropriate legal proceedings the continuance of a violation or breach of the Association's legal documents or rules and regulations.
III. HEARING GUIDELINES
None of the enforcement remedies cited above may be pursued by the Board until an opportunity for a hearing has been provided to the alleged offender. The following guidelines apply to the hearing procedure:
1.  The Managing Agent shall send a written notice, mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the member, advising the member of his or her right to contest the complaint at a hearing before the Covenants Committee or the Board of Directors.
2.  Such notice shall advise the member of the date, time and location of the hearing, of the member's right to be represented by counsel, and of an earlier date, at least fourteen ( 14) days following the date of the receipt of the notice, by which the alleged offender must, by written notification to the Association's Managing Agent, confirm the intention to attend the hearing or make a request for the hearing to be conducted on a date other than as specified in the notice.
This request may be granted if reasonable and satisfactory justification for rescheduling the hearing is presented. The Covenants Committee or Board of Directors shall set all hearing dates at its discretion. 
When no response is received by the Association from the alleged offender by the hearing confirmation date, or the member confirms attendance but fails to attend the hearing without providing reasonable and satisfactory explan11tion, the alleged offender shall be deemed to have waived the right to attend the hearing. In such a case, the Covenants Committee or Board of Directors may impose a monetary charge in the absence of the alleged offender. No such monetary charge shall be effective until a motion of the Covenants Committee or Board of Directors is duly passed. The minutes of the hearing at which the motion is passed must contain a written statement of the results of the motion, the imposed sanction, if any, and proof that the notice and invitation to be heard was mailed.
When the member exercises his or her right to a hearing, the member has a right to present evidence, present and cross-examine witnesses, and a general right to be heard.
Following the evidentiary portion of the hearing, the Covenants Committee or Board of Directors may conduct its deliberations in Executive Session to determine whether satisfactory proof of the alleged offense exists and, if so, whether monetary charges should be imposed.
Notice of the decision of the Covenants Committee or Board of Directors shall be mailed to the alleged offender by certified mail within ten (10) calendar days of the hearing.
When the judgment is unfavorable to the member, the Covenants Committee or Board of Directors shall instruct the Managing Agent to undertake the administrative actions required to effect the charge as an assessment against the member's lot. When judgment is favorable to the member, the records of the Association shall be revised to so indicate, and the occurrence in question shall be disregarded for purposes of determining whether any alleged allegation of subsequent offenses are regarded as continuing offenses.
If the Board, after providing an opportunity for a hearing to the alleged offender, determines there is satisfactory proof that a member has committed or is committing a continuing offense, and that monetary charges should be assessed, the calendar days for which daily charges may accrue will be those beginning after the date the member is in receipt of the notice of the decision made at the hearing and ending with the date on which the Association's Covenants Committee, Board of Directors or Managing Agent observes that correction has occurred, or is notified by the member that such correction has occurred, subject to later confirmation by the Association; however, in no case may the daily charge for a continuing violation exceed a total of fifty (50) days.
IV. APPEAL OF DECISIONS OF THE COVENANTS COMMITTEE
A. Right of Owners to Appeal. A decision of the Covenants Committee which results in the imposition of a monetary or other sanction upon a unit owner may be appealed to the Board of Directors if such action is taken within ten (10) days following the receipt of a decision by the Covenants Committee. In the event that a unit owner files an appeal, any sanctions imposed by the Covenants Committee shall be suspended until the conclusion of the appeals process.
B. Appeals Petition. Appeals petitions must be in writing and in substantially the following form:
(I) (We) hereby petition the Board of Directors to hear an appeal of the decision of the Covenants Committee (Case No.) (I) (We) further understand that within the Association the decision of the Board of Directors on this issue is final.
C. Board Disposition of An Appeal.  The Board of Directors must act within thirty (30) days following receipt of an appeals position and must notify the unit owner in writing of the Board's decision. A unit owner may provide any additional information to the Board which as pertinent to the Board's review of the matter. A two thirds vote of the Board of Directors shall be required in order to reverse a decision of the Covenants Committee. In the event that the Board upholds a decision of the Committee, any sanctions imposed by the Committee shall commence on a date certain set by the Board of Directors and identified in the written response to the unit owner.
V. APPLICABILITY
The procedures delineated herein may be applied to offenses of the rules and regulations and legal documents of the Association, but do not preclude the additional independent application of any other specialized and more expeditious enforcement procedures and remedies, as authorized in the Association's Policy Resolutions and state law, including, but not limited to:
1.   Tagging and towing of prohibited or unauthorized vehicles as authorized under Policy Resolution No. 7, Vehicle Policies.
2.  Removal of offending animals as authorized under Policy Resolution No. 8, Pet Policies.
3.  Initiation of legal action as authorized by the Declaration and Bylaws.
 
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 5A
COVENANTS HEARING POLICY


WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3. J of the Bylaws states that "TT1c Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do a!! such acts and things as arc not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;•· and
WHEREAS, THE Stratford Condominium has established a Covenants Committee and needs a policy providing specific procedures for proceedings before the Covenants Committee and on the appeals therefore to the Board of Directors, and;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Board of Directors approve the adoption of Policy Resolution 5A.
 
PROCEDURES IN PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE COVENANTS COMMITTEE
AND ON APPEALS THEREFROM TO THE BOARD
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws assigns the Board of Directors with "all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Condominium" and further states that the Board "may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act of these Bylaws directed to be exercised and done by the Unit Owners Association; and
WHEREAS, Section 55-79.53 of the Code of Virginia, as amended, charges all unit owners and occupants with compliance will all provisions of the Act and the Condominium Instruments, and that "any lack of such compliance shall be grounds for an action or suit to recover sums due, for damages or injunctive relief, or for any other remedy available at law or in equity, maintainable by the unit ow11er' s association, or by its executive organ or any managing agent on behalf of such association; and
WHEREAS, Section 55-79.80:2.A of the Code of Virginia states "the unit owner's association shall have the power, to the extent the condominium instruments or rules duly adopted pursuant thereto expressly to provide, to (i) suspend a unit owner's right lo use facilities or services including utility services provided directly through the unit owner's association for nonpayment of assessments which are more than sixty days past due, to the extent that access to the unit through the common elements is not precluded and provided that such suspension shall not endanger the health, safety, or property of any unit owner, tenant, or occupant and (ii) assess charges against any unit owner for any violation of the condominium instruments or of the rules or regulations promulgated pursuant thereto for which such unit owner or his family members, tenants, guests or other invitees are responsible."
WHEREAS, for the benefit and protection of the Association and of the individual unit owner or occupant, the Board deems it desirable to establish and operate by a procedure to assure due process in cases where there is a question of compliance by a unit owner or occupant with provisions of the Condominium Act, the Condominium Instruments or the Book of Resolutions, thereby attempting to minimize the necessity of seeking action in or through a court of law; and
WHEREAS, Article 3 Section 3.13 of the Bylaws provides for the establishment of a Covenants Committee which will serve, in addition to the Board, 1o regulate the appearance and use of the common elements and which has standing to notify and issue a Cease and Desist Request and authority to provide interpretations of the governing documents and rules and regulations, subject to constraints set forth in that Section; and 
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Directors to establish procedures for the Board of Directors and the Covenants Committee where they must take action relative to questions of compliance by an individual with the provisions of the Condominium Act, Condominium Instruments, or the Book of Resolutions, or where the Covenants Committee is called upon to issue an interpretive ruling;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Procedures in Proceedings before the Covenants Committee and on Appeal therefrom to the Board, shall be in accordance with the following;
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISION
Section 1 - Purpose:
The purpose of these regulations and procedures is to provide a reasonable and proper system to effect prompt, efficient, fair and reasonable adjudication and enforcement of applicable pertinent laws, rules and regulations governing the behavior and actions of owners, occupants, their guests and invitees, and other persons while on the premises of Stratford Condominium. These provisions should be read and interpreted as affording a due process of law on the one hand and ensuring that the legitimate interests of the Stratford Condominium community are preserved and safeguarded on the other.
Section 2 - Statement of Reservations:
Nothing in this Resolution shall be construed as prohibiting or inhibiting any duly authorized officer of the Association, member of the Board of Directors, or the Management Agent from taking lawful action to deal with illegal conduct on the premises. No owner or occupant shall b e prevented from taking legal action to preserve and safeguard these interests.
Section 3 - Definition of Terms:
1.  Minor Infractions - Minor infractions constitute those violations of applicable rules which do not result in injury or threatened injury to a person or persons or damage to property, but shall not include any conduct which constitutes a violation of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia or ordinances of the County of Fairfax.
2.  Major Infractions - Major infractions constitute ( I ) violations of applicable rules which result in injury to a person or damage to property, or which, if allowed to continue may result in such injury or damage, (2) violations of any law of1he Commonwealth of Virginia or ordinance of the County of Fairfax, and (3) violations of any rules or regulation duly adopted by the Board of Directors which classifies a violation thereof as a major infraction.
3.  Applicable Rules - for purposes of these regulations the term "applicable rules" shall he construed to include all pertinent laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, ordinances of the County of Fairfax and all provisions of the Association's Declaration, Bylaws, and the Book of Resolutions, and all published rules and  regulations duly approved by the Board of Directors.
Section 4 - Who May Register a Complaint:
A complaint alleging violation of applicable rules may be registered by any owner, occupant, member or officer of the Board of Directors, or any agent or employee of the Condominium, with particular reference to the Management Agent.
Section 5 Definition of Management Agent
The term Management Agent is defined, for the purposes of this resolution, to include employees of the Stratford Condominium, if any. Such employees shall be designated in writing by the President.
ARTICLE II. MINOR VIOLATIONS
Section 1 - Direct Informal Registering of a Complaint:
Persons who are authorized to register a complaint concerning an alleged violation of applicable rules involving a minor infraction are authorized to request the person believed to be in violation to cease engaging in the activity.
Section 2 - Reporting Minor Infractions to the Management Agent:
In the event the informal procedure outlined in Section 1 above is not followed, or, i f followed, i s unsuccessful, then complaints involving a minor infraction may b e made to the management Agent in writing. The complainant should furnish the Management Agent with all known pertinent facts.
Section 3 - Action to be Taken by the Management Agent:
a. Request for Discussion - Upon receipt of a complaint involving an infraction the Management Agent shall determine whether the alleged violation is, if substantiated, a violation of an applicable rule, consulting i f deemed necessary with the Chairman of the Covenants Committee. If an applicable rule appears to have been breached, the Management Agent shall, within five (5) business days of receipt of the complaint, notify in writing the alleged violator or owner allegedly in violation of the rules regarding the complaint and may in its discretion request an early discussion of the matter.
b. Report to the Covenants Committee - Upon completing its inquiry, The Management Agent shall promptly transmit a written report to the Chairman of the Covenants Committee stating the pertinent facts and indicating disposition made of the case as follows:
1.  The alleged violation is not covered by any applicable rule, or:
2.  The alleged complaint cannot be substantiated and has been dismissed, or:
3.  The accused agrees that a violation was committed and has stated that it will not be repeated, or;
4.  The alleged complaint has been substantiated and the Management Agent has taken the following action;
(i)  Has given the accused a letter of warning to refrain from violating any applicable rule, or;
(ii)  Has given the accused a letter of censure to refrain from violating any applicable rule or be subject to appropriate additional action for failure to comply.
(iii) The case is of such a nature (and providing the reasons) as 10 warrant referral to the Covenants Committee.
(iv) A copy of every letter sent pursuant to this Section shall be provided to the Covenants Committee, and also placed i n the file of the person involved, and in the Master File.
c. Right to Appeal:
In the event action is taken as described under Section 3. Subsection b.(4)(i) or (ii) above, the referenced letter shall inform the offender that he has the right to appeal the adverse action i n writing to the Covenants Committee within five days of the Management Agent ' s letter of notification.
d. Right of the Management Agent to Register a Complaint:
Pursuant to Article l , Section 4 above, the Management Agent or employee of Stratford Condominium may, on its own initiative institute action i n consonance with the procedures set forth above.
Section 4 - Action lo be Taken by the Covenants Committee:
Upon receipt of the Management Agent's repo11, the Chairman of the Covenants Committee shall place the report on the Committee's agenda for its next regular or special Meeting. 
Cases involving an appeal pursuant to Section 3, Sub-section c, shall be handled i n accordance with the procedures prescribed below for major infractions but modified to the extent that the Covenants Committee deems reasonable in order to avoid unnecessary repetition.
ARTICLE III MAJOR VIOLATIONS
Section 1 - Use of Hearing Panels:
In applying the procedure set forth in Article I l l of this Resolution, the Covenants Committee is authorized to establish hearing panels to hear cases presented to the Committee. Such panels, may be established, however, only if the Covenants Committee determines that the volume or complexity of cases to be heard or the non-availability of Committee members warrants the use of such panels. 
Such panels, if established, shall include at least one member of the Covenants Committee who shall serve as Chairman and shall include a total of not less than three nor more than five members. Non-committee members shall be composed of owners in good standing, but shall exclude any officer or member of the Board of Directors, any owner who has been found to have violated an applicable rule under these regulations, an any witness who is to appear before the panel.
Section 2 - Filing a Written Complaint:
Any person authorized to file a complaint involving an alleged major infraction shall submit the complaint in writing to the Management Agent ( except when the management Agent is itself the complainant). Such complaint shall set forth in ordinary and concise language the following information:
1.  The name or names of the accused, as the case may be.
2.  The nature of the alleged violation, including a statement of the specific acts or omissions with which the accused is charged.
3.  The specific applicable rule to rules alleged to have been violated.
4.   Whether or not the complaint requested the accused to cease and desist, and if so, the response made by the accused, if any.
5.  The names of witnesses who have knowledge of the incident. 
In filing such a complaint, the complainant is free to consult with the Management Agent in order to more accurately cite the applicable rule or rules alleged to have been violated. Upon receipt of such complaint, Management shall promptly investigate the alleged violation and submit a report to the Covenants Committee setting forth its findings, including the amount of physical damage, if any, Upon receipt of such report the Covenants Committee shall determine what action should be taken in the matter.
 Section 3- Service of Complaint; Notice of Hearing: and Notice of Defense:
1. Issuance and Service of Complaint:
If the Covenants Committee or the Chairman of the Covenants Committee conclude that formal proceedings are required, the Chairman of the Committee shall instruct the Management Agent or an appropriate employee of the Association to issue and serve a formal complaint and a Notice of Hearing on the accused either by (a) hand delivery or (b) certified United States mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the accused at the address appearing on the records of the Association. In addition, but not by way of substitution, the complaint and Notice of Hearing may be mailed by first class mail.
The formal complaint shall be accompanied by a written notice of the time and place of hearing and stating that the accused will be given an opportunity to be heard and to be represented by counsel. If the accused wishes to make a defense l o the complaint, he may do so in writing filed with the Chairman of the Covenants Committee. No action adversely affecting the rights or interest of the accused shall be taken unless the accused has been duly served as herein provided, however, the failure of the accused to file a notice of defense or to appear at the hearing shall not prevent the Covenants Committee from proceeding to adjudicate the case.
The complaint and Notice of Hearing shall be served at least fourteen days prior to the dale fixed in the notice for the hearing on both the accused and the party who presented the charge.
If any essential party can show cause why they cannot attend the hearing as scheduled, the Chairman of the Covenants Committee may reschedule the hearing, or, i f the hearing has commenced but has not been concluded, provide for an adjourned session, ordinarily not lo exceed a postponement of more than fourteen days. In the event it develops that the accused acknowledges responsibility for the violation alleged, or does not wish to contest the alleged infraction, the Covenants Committee may take such testimony from other parties involved to the extent it deems this to be necessary or desirable to resolve the matter or make a finding.
b. Content of Notice of Hearing:
The Notice o f Hearing accompanying the complaint served on respondent shall be substantially in the following form:
"You are hereby notified that, in accordance with Title 5 5 , Section 79.39 et seq. of the Code of Virginia, a hearing will be held before the Covenants Committee of Stratford Condominium Unit Owners Association on_____ at _____ in _____, to act upon the attached complaint. You may be present at this hearing and may, but not need to be, represented by counsel. You may present evidence and will be given an opportunity to cross-examine all witnesses testifying against you. You may request that records and documents of the Association which you believe are relevant to your case be made to you by so notifying the undersigned in writing.
 
If you wish to admit the allegations contained in the complaint in whole or in part if you wish to waive your right to a hearing as stated above, you are requested to so notify the undersigned in writing within five days following receipt of this communication.
If you wish to attend the hearing as scheduled or designate another person to appear in your behalf, you are requested to similarly inform the undersigned.
You may inform the undersigned in writing that you object to the complaint on whatever grounds you deem fit, including but not limited to your belief that the complaint does not charge a violation of any applicable rule (giving the reasons therefore), or that the complai11t is so vague or indefinite that you cannot adequately respond without being furnished more specific information. Your response under this paragraph shall be deemed to constitute your notice of defense to the Covenants Committee."
Section 4 - Authority of Covenants Committee to Issue Cease and Desist Request:
In serving a complaint on an accused, the Covenants Committee or the Chairman may, in its discretion, also serve a Cease and Desist Request which shall be substantially in the following form and ordinarily will be included as a part of the communication described in Section 3, Subsection b. above.
"By authority of Title 55, Section 79.53 of the Code of Virginia (Condominium Act), as amended, and Article 3, Section 3.13(A) of the Bylaws of The Stratford Condominium Unit Owners Association, the Covenants Committee hereby directs that you cease and desist the acts or actions set forth in the attached complaint until such time, if any, as a ruling of the Covenants Committee, Board of Directors or court of law permits such acts or conduct. Failure to comp ly with this Cease and Desist directive may result in damages greater than might otherwise be the case. You are further directed to advise the Chairman of the Covenants Committee through the Association Office within 72 hours following receipt of this communication the steps you have taken to comply with this directive."
Section 5 - Authority of the Covenants Committee to Pcm1it Filing of an Amended or Supplemental Complaint:
At any time prior to the scheduled hearing date, the formal complaint may be amended or supplemented by the Covenants Committee, and if so amended or supplemented, the Chairman of the Covenants Committee shall notify all parties involved and may reschedule the hearing if necessary.
Section 6 - Conduct of the Hearing:
a. The hearing need not and ordinarily will not be conducted to technical rules relating to evidence and related matters customarily applied in a court of law.
b. Evidence deemed by the hearing body to be irrelevant or immaterial be excluded from the record of proceedings.
c. Oral testimony only, not the deliberations of the Committee, may be tape recorded at the discretion of the Committee. Written testimony is admissible if provided by affidavit. Written testimony which constitutes records of the Association kept in the ordinary course of business need not be by affidavit
d. The Management Agent, the accused, the person lodging the initial complaint, as well as members of the hearing panel shall have the right (a) to call, examine, and cross-examine witnesses, (b) to introduce documentary evidence, and (c) to rebut evidence.
e. Hearings shall be closed to residents and unit owners who are not essential to the hearing.
f.  If at any time during the course of the hearing a member of the hearing body is obliged to withdraw, the remaining members shall continue to serve and proceed with the case to a conclusion.
g. For the purpose of decision by the Covenants Committee, as well as for any review thereof by the Board of Directors, the record shall include the formal complaint, the accused's defense, if any, mid any amendment thereof; any motion filed during the course of the proceeding and the rulings thereon; any exhibits presented at the hearing; and any taped recording of the proceeding. The decision of the hearing body, when filed with the Chairman of the Covenants Committee, shall also become a part of the record.
Section 7 - Decision of the Hearing Body and the Covenants Committee:
a. If the hearing body includes three or more members of the Covenants Committee, the findings mid decision reached by the hearing body shall constitute the decision of the Covenants Committee.
b. lf the hearing body includes less than three members of the Covenants Committee, the findings and decision of the hearing body shall be deemed a recommendation to be considered by and acted upon by the Covenants Committee.
c. Decisions of the hearing body or the Covenants Committee, as the case may be, shall be by majority vote, and when made shall become a part of the record.
d. Upon completion of the record, as provided, the hearing shall prepare written Findings of Fact based on the entire record. The decision of the committee shall also contain a summary of the evidence presented at the hearing. The hearing body shall then decide whether or not the accused is responsible either in whole or in part for the alleged violation(s). If the hearing body determines that the accused is responsible. it shall decide what action should be taken.
e. Action to be taken may consist of one or more of the following:
1. The assessment of a charge in an amount not to exceed fifty dollars for a single violation or ten dollars per diem for any violation of a continuing nature.
2.  Any other action deemed appropriate to obtain compliance with the applicable rule or rules involved, including but not limited to asserting a claim for sums due to the Association for any damages to Association property, any other costs incurred by the Association in seeking compliance, including reasonable attorney's fees should legal action be taken to enforce the decision of the Covenants Committee, any attendant court costs resulting therefrom, and time spent by the Management Agent in performing investigatory and related services deemed necessary in dealing with the case.
f. Once a final decision has been made, a copy of the Findings of Fact and decision of the Covenants Committee shall be served without delay on each party to the proceedings, including any attorney who has appeared on behalf of any such party. The Chairman of the Covenants Committee shall instruct the Management Agent to effect such delivery in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested.
g. The notice to the accused shall state that he has the right to appeal the decision of the Covenants Committee to the Board of Directors in the manner provided in Section 8 hereof.
h. The Chairman of the Covenants Committee shall furnish the Management Agent a copy of the Findings of Fact and decision and request that the Management Agent take all necessary follow-up action to enforce and obtain compliance in respect to the action taken.
Section 8 - Right of Appeal to the Board of Directors
Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Covenants Commit1ee shall have the right to appeal that decision to the Board of Directors. Such appeal shall be filed within ten calendar (10) days after service of the decision of the Covenants Committee and shall be perfected and processed in accordance with the provisions of Section VII of Policy of this Resolution No. SA. The Board will reach a decision within ninety (90) days after receipt of the appeal or 45 days after a hearing on the appeal, and will provide the Chairman of the Covenants Committee with a copy of the Board 's final decision on the appeal.
Section 9 - Publicizing Decisions:
Once a final decision has been made involving a complaint, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, bring to the attention of owners ,m d occupants the nature of the complaint; the applicable rule or rules involved; and the action taken to obtain compliance provided, however, that names or unit numbers of the persons involved shall not be disclosed.
ARTICLE IV. FAILURE TO PAY ASSESSMENTS
Section 1 - Suspension of Services
Where it has been established by the Management Agent that a unit owner is delinquent in the payment of common expenses for more than sixty days from the due date, the Management Agent shall have the authority to suspend a unit owner's use of facilities and services including utility services provided directly through the Association to the extent access to the unit through the common elements is not precluded and provided that such suspension shall not endanger the health, safety or property of any unit owner, tenant or occupant, subject to the procedures set forth in this Resolution.


Section 2 - Notice:
The Management Agent shall notify the delinquent Owner, in writing, that use of facilities and services, including utility services provided directly through the Association, will be suspended until such time as the unpaid assessments and/or charges owed to Stratford Condominium Unit Owners Association are satisfied in full. A copy of the form notification letter is attached as Exhibit l to this Policy Resolution. A copy of this letter will be sent to Stratford Condominium's legal counsel, collections counsel, the Management Office, and the Board of Directors.
The notice shall provide that suspension of a unit owner 's use of facilities and services,  including utility services, is subject to the opportunity for the unit owner to appear before the Covenants Committee and to be represented by legal counsel. A copy of the hearing request form shall be included with the notice letter and is attached to this Resolution as Exhibit 2.
Section 3 -  Notice to Tenants:
Where the Management Agent has knowledge that the unit owner has leased their unit, a notification letter shall also be mailed to the tenant once the Covenants Committee has considered the case and all periods of appeal have expired. The forn1 of the notice to tenants is attached as Exhibit 3 to the Resolution. The tenant will not be considered to a party to any proceedings or hearings. However, any suspension of facilities and services, including utility services, will apply to the tenant(s).
Section 4 - Facilities and Services Suspended:
Any Suspension imposed against a Unit Owner shall also be applicable to that Unit Owner's tenants or guests and shall include, but not be limited lo, the denial of use of the following facilities and services:
a. Use of indoor/outdoor swimming pools
b. Rental of party rooms.
c. Use of package service
d. Participation in Activities Office sponsored events where a purchase of a ticket is required or a fee is paid.
e. Use of handyman program
f. Use of parking within the common elements of the Condominium. Not included are limited common element parking spaces located within the garages and assigned to the unit against the common expense assessments and/or charges are owed.
g. Guest passes for vehicle parking on the common elements
h. TV Room
L. Exercise Room
J. Water Service
k. Electrical Service
Section 5 - Lifting Suspension:
Any suspension imposed will be lifted immediately upon confirmation of full payment of the delinquent amounts due and owing to the Association.
Section 6 - Appeal of Suspension:
Action taken by the Covenants Committee in suspending facilities and services as provided herein may be appealed to the Board of Directors in accordance with Article III, Section 8 and Article VIII of this Resolution.
ARTICLE V. RESERVATION OF RIGHTS
All rights, powers, options or remedies afforded to the Unit Owners Association, either hereunder or by the Virginia Condominium Act, or the Condominium Instruments, shall be cumulative and not alternative and the exercise of one right, power, option or remedy shall not bar other rights, powers, options or remedies allowed hereunder or by the Virginia Condominium Act or the Condominium Instruments.
ARTICLE VI. INTERPRETIVE RULINGS
Section l - Purpose of Rulings:
The Covenants Committee may from time to time provide interpretive rulings on the governing condominium documents. The purpose of such interpretive rulings is not to amend, expand or limit the provisions of those documents, although the Covenants Committee may, the statements accompanying the ruling, propose amendments, expansions or limits.
Section 2 - Petitions:
1.  Any owner and any agent of the Association may petition the Covenants Committee for an interpretive ruling by filing a petition at the Management Office at the Community center.
2.  The petition must be legibly written, in substantially the following form: 
The party(ies) below request the Covenants Committee to issue an interpretive ruling on the following provisions of the governing documents or rules and regulations of the Association:
Section 3 - Decisions:
To be effective a decision of the Covenants Committee shall be a majority vote. The decision shall be issued within 45 days from the date of the hearing of the matter. The decision shall be written and accompanied by both the majority and minority opinions, if any. Copies of the decision shall be published and distributed to the party(ies) requesting the ruling and included in Part JV of the Book of Resolutions. The decision when in resolution form shall conform to the format for the resolutions set forth in Policy Resolution No. I . A summary of the decision may be published in the community newsletter.
ARTICLE VII. APPEALS
Section l - Rights of Owners:
Any owner may appeal a decision of the Covenants Committee to the Board of Directors, provided that all parties involved comply with the decision of the Covenants Committee until such time, if any, as the Board of Directors reverses or amends such decision, or remands the matter to the Covenants Committee for further consideration or proceedings.
Section 2 - Appeals Petitions:
Appeals petitions must be legibly written and be submitted to the Board at the Association Office in substantially the following form:
"(I) (We),_____ , hereby petition the Board of Directors to hear an appeal of Special Resolution No. ___ , (title)_____ .
(I) (We) further understand that within the Association the decision of the Board of Directors on this issue is final, and that if further action is initiated by the Association, another owner or (myself) (ourselves), it will be through legal proceedings in a court of law."
 Section 3 - Notice of Hearing:
Notice of Hearing shall be given by the Board of Directors by certified United States mail return receipt requested or personal delivery at least fourteen days in advance of the hearing in the matter. Notice may also, but not by way of substitution, be sent by first class mail.
Section 4 - Procedures:
The Board of Directors shall review the written record and shall permit oral arguments at its hearing. However, only under extraordinary circumstances will the Board of Directors permit the introduction of new evidence on appeal.
Section 5 - Effect of Decision:
Through a vote of the majority of the Board, the Board of Directors may uphold the Covenants Committee's decision in its entirety, may amend such decision (except that where a Covenants Committee decision includes a penalty, the Board in no event shall impose more stringent disciplinary action than that imposed by the Covenants Committee), or may overturn such decision or remand the matter back to the Covenants Committee for further consideration or proceedings.
[DOES THE BOARD WISH TO REQUIRE ARBITRATION PURSUANT TO §§ 55-79.53 and 8.01-577 et seq. OF THE CODE]
ARTICLE VIII. EFFECTIVE DATE
This resolution with amendments shall become effective April 2003 and shall apply to all proceedings initiated on or after  that date.