STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 28
Use of Common Areas: Video Cameras
WHEREAS, Article - Section - of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Stratford Condominium Unit Owners Association (hereinafter the "Association") and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium Instruments required to be exercised and done by theAssociation," and
WHEREAS, video cameras will only be installed in the common areas of the Condominium which include, but are not limited to, the basement, hallways, corridors, lobbies, stairways, elevators, janitor closets, parking areas and lawn areas outside of the Condominium.
WHEREAS, to address security concerns due to the high number of occupants in the Condominium, and the multitude of residents, visitors, vendors, contractors, domestic help, mail carriers and delivery personnel throughout the property, the Board has voted to install video cameras in the Association's Common Areas for the purpose of crime deterrence and the enforcement of the Association's Bylaws and rules and regulations, and
WHEREAS, although the Association will employ video cameras, the Association and its Board of Directors cannot and do not in any way assume responsibility for, or guarantee, the security of Association residents, guests and property. All Association residents are urged to undertake their own reasonable safety precautions; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is necessary and prudent to adopt rules and regulations regarding the installation and use of surveillance devices in the Condominium for the benefit and protection of all the Association's residents.
The Association will endeavor to take steps to protect personal privacy in the operation of its video camera systems. Accordingly, no video camera may be installed on the Association's common property in any location for which there is a reasonable expectation of privacy, in accordance with Virginia law.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following video camera policies be adopted by the Board:
I. OVERVIEW
When successfully deployed, the Association expects the video camera systems to address security and safety concerns, deter crimes, including vandalism and theft that may occur within the building, and otherwise support the protection of people and property. The primary use of the surveillance devices will be to record footage for use by law enforcement investigating alleged violations of law within the building and the Board investigating alleged violations of the Condominium Instruments. The existence of this Resolution does not imply or guarantee that the surveillance devices will be monitored in real time or continuously or otherwise.
II. DEFINITIONS
(a) Surveillance Device. A video camera is defined as video surveillance technology that records people's activities in order to detect, deter, prevent, or investigate crime or other threats to public safety.
(b) Monitor. Operators are defined as specific individuals, designated by the Board of Directors, to manage the operation of the video camera system, log all instances of accessing the system, and, if directed by the Board of Directors, provides copies of specific segments of video to the Board to support an approved investigation.
(c) Footage is defined as unedited, raw material, which includes both video and still images, recorded by a surveillance device. Footage will only be captured by the Association's surveillance devices when motion is detected by the device. Footage captured from a surveillance device will be stored and maintained in a secured location within the Condominium building.
III. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to regulate the installation and appropriate uses of video cameras and related data by management, employees, and the Board of Directors, including the retention and release of recorded images. This policy applies to cameras installed or activated, permanently or on a temporary basis, by the Association, irrespective of the specific camera technology or whether they are monitored in real time. This policy governs all current and future video camera systems with planned installation as of this Resolution's effective date.
1.  The primary use of video cameras will be to record images for future identification of individuals in the event of legal, criminal, or policy violations.
2.  Video cameras will only be used in a manner that does not interfere with residents' reasonable expectation of privacy as defined by law.
3.  The Board of Directors shall determine the locations in and on the Common Areas where the cameras will be placed.
4.  Recorded images will not be routinely checked and will be reviewed in the event that the Association has a need to review the recorded images. Recorded information will be stored in a secure location with access by authorized individuals only.
IV. SCOPE AND EXCLUSIONS
Efforts to promote safety by the installation of video cameras are primarily focused on, but not limited to, protection of individuals - including residents, staff, employees and visitors - and monitoring of:
1.  Association-owned and/or operated property and buildings;
2.  Rooms containing high value equipment or information; and
3.  Common areas and areas accessible to the public.
This policy applies to all owners, tenants and employees, including contractors, with respect to the installation, operation and monitoring of video cameras.
The Association shall not install video cameras in areas where there is a reasonable expectation of privacy, as defined by law, such as restrooms and occupied residences.
Association owned, operated and/or managed video cameras will not be used for a primary purpose other than to enhance safety, operations, and to help deter crime.
The Board of Directors, in consultation with the Managing Agent (TO BE DEFINED) and Association counsel, may grant exceptions to this policy. Exceptions, including their rationale, should be documented in writing and included in the inventory. In cases where exceptions to this policy are necessary due to contractual requirements, approval must be obtained from the Board of Directors.
V. RECORDS
Although Virginia law does not provide retention requirements for video surveillance records, they will be treated as protected data. Specifically, images recorded by video cameras will be considered sensitive information whose confidentiality, integrity and availability should be protected. Video camera data will be handled with safeguards appropriate to the sensitivity, criticality and level of identified risk of stored video images and recordings. 
Surveillance camera data shall be retained from the time they are recorded, until the system reaches capacity, unless it is needed as part of a Board approved investigation and/or court proceeding. Surveillance camera data used to investigate, prosecute or otherwise litigate, shall be retained until the investigation, prosecutions and/or legal action is complete. Unless the images are part of an investigation, or court order, the Condominium will not copy or permanently retain any images or related data, and if it does copy or permanently retain images or related data, it will do so only to the extent required by the circumstances.
VI. OVERSIGHT
The Board of Directors shall convene, on at least an annual basis, an oversight committee with member representation that has the responsibility to:
1.  At least once every three years, review and revise this policy and related standards, guidelines and procedures.
2.  Review and approve major amendments to this policy, and
3. Provide periodic updates to the community about video cameras for enhanced transparency.
The Managing Agent (TBD) will:
1.  Maintain an up-to-elate comprehensive inventory of permanent camera installations and image storage locations to facilitate police access to recorded images of possible crimes or incidents that require investigation, and
2.   Provide periodic administrative updates and guidance to video camera operators/users.
VII. OPERATOR/USER ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Access to camera systems must be strictly controlled. The computer or operating system associated with the Association surveillance device will be password protected and will not be able to be accessed without permission from the Board. The authorized users or operators of video cameras are staff members and/or designated individuals who have been assigned responsibility by the Board of Directors or other delegated executive authorities. Once authorized, operators and users are responsible for the installation, management, operation, maintenance, and use of video cameras and surveillance systems. Authorized personnel should generally consist only of the Board of Directors, Managing Agent, designated executive authority and personnel specifically designated as video camera system operators.
Personnel employed by a vendor under contract with the Association to install, maintain, enhance or repair the Association's video equipment/systems are authorized access to the equipment/systems for installation and servicing purposes only.
The Association's designated supervisor (TBD) will test the computer or monitoring system associated with the surveillance device at least once every two (2) weeks to ensure that the system is functioning properly and that the cameras have not been obscured, manipulated or otherwise tampered with. The supervisor will not have access to previously recorded footage and will only be able to review a live stream to ensure that the system is functioning properly. The supervisor must immediately inform the Board if the Association's surveillance device system is not properly functioning or if any of the cameras in the system have been obscured, manipulated or otherwise tampered with.
Video camera system operators must be trained and supervised in the responsible and effective us of these systems and technology, including the technical, legal and ethical parameters of such use.
Operators must receive a copy of this policy and must sign that they have read and agree to the operator code of conduct.
Upon staff separation, for whatever reason, management or the Board must ensure that camera operator access privileges are withdrawn within 24 hours of termination of employment.
VIII. AUTHORIZATION OF NEW INSTALLATIONS
All new installations of video cameras scheduled after the effective date of this policy must be in compliance with the terms and conditions of this policy and related standards.
IX. RECORDED IMAGES STORAGE, ACCESS AND RELEASE
Video camera system operators are responsible to appropriately protect the privacy of personal information that may have been captured by cameras under their control.
Video camera controls, the associated data storage system and all recorded images generated by Association video cameras must be stored in a secure location at all times, accessible only to authorized and trained staff members and configured to prevent unauthorized modification, duplication or destruction. The images and data will only be stored on Associated owned data storage equipment. The images and data must not be transmitted or stored by any other method including, but not limited to, via internet or cloud-based means, unless and until such time that the Association enters into a contract with a vendor that can provide secure storage that meets the Association's privacy requirements.
The system automatically overwrites the oldest data as it reaches capacity. Data that includes recorded images will be stored as long as the system allows unless the data are part of an ongoing Board approved investigation or court proceeding, as provided in Section V, above.
Recordings may be released to police or other authorized investigative authority upon receipt of a formal written request. The need for a written request may be waived in situations where time is of the essence. In the case where the Association has requested police intervention for a specific criminal investigative purpose and video recordings are considered integral to successful investigation, the Managing Agent may release the recordings without further authorization. It is the Association's policy to release video data in compliance with valid court orders.
Other requests for access to or release of recorded images must be forwarded to the Managing Agent, who will review the request and make the final determination, in consultation with the Association's legal counsel. The Managing Agent will include a summary of all requests for access to/release of security camera footage and the disposition of those requests to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Video camera system operators must maintain a log of all instances of access to and release of recorded material and a brief statement of the purpose and need for access to and use of the footage. The log will include the date access is given, name of individual data released to, agency the individual represents, i.e. police department, city attorney, Board of Directors, etc., and content released, e.g. recordings from 1213 to 1715 08AUG2020, Building 2 garage camera.
X. VIOLATIONS AND SANCTIONS
Violations of this policy by operators of video cameras will be considered misconduct on the part of the operator.