STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM UNIT OWNERS ASSOCIATION
RESOLUTION NO. 11 A
(Prohibition on Smoking at Swimming Pools)
WHEREAS, Section 55-79.5 3 of the Virginia Condominium Act, Code of Virginia (1950 , as amended) ("Act'') and Article 9 , Section 9 .1 of the Bylaws of Stratford Condominium (" Bylaws") require that each owner, tenant, or occupant of a Unit comply with the Act, the condominium instruments (including the Declaration and Bylaws) and the rules and regulations of the Stratford Condominium Unit Owners Association ("Association"), as may be amended from time to time;
WHEREAS, Article 5, Section 5 . 8(b) of the Bylaws grants the Association's Board of Directors ("Board") the power to adopt and modify rules and regulations governing the use of units and common elements;
WHEREAS, Article 5 , Section 5. 8(a)(3) of the Bylaws and Section 14 of the Rules and Regulations provide that no "improper, offensive or unlawful use shall be made of the Property or any part thereof ... ";
WHEREAS, Section 15 of the Rules and Regulations provides that "No unit owner shall ... do or permit anything which will interfere with the rights, comforts or convenience of other unit owners . . . . "; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors seeks to reduce litter at the pools and to protect the Association's residents, and guests from the adverse impact of smoke at the swimming pools:
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED THAT:


(1 )          No person shall light or smoke any tobacco product, nor any other substance at
any of the swimming pools at Stratford Condominium.
(2)          Without limiting any other remedies available to the Association under the
governing documents of Stratford or at law, violators may be charged up to $50.00 for any
violation and up to $ 10 .00 per day for any continuing violation or such greater amounts as may
be authorized by the Board of Directors and the Condominium Act. Any charges assessed for a
violation of the Bylaws or this rule, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, shall be
reasonably related to the severity of the violation and shall be treated as an assessment against
such unit owner's unit for which the Association shall have a lien against the unit. Such amounts
also shall be the personal obligation of the unit owner, and where applicable, the tenant(s). For
purposes of this Resolution, in the event that the person in violation is a tenant or guest of a unit
owner then the unit owner and the offending person shall he jointly and severally liable to the
Association for any charges assessed as a result of such violation.
(3)          The offending person, and/or the owner of the unit in which that person resides
shall be jointly and severally liable for all costs incurred by the Association to enforce this
Resolution and the Association's Bylaws Rules & Regulations, including court costs and
reasonable attorney's fees.
(4)         This Resolution shall not be deemed to require a hearing prior to assessment of
rules violation charges if a hearing is not requested or to prevent the Association from exercising
any other remedies authorized or available under the Condominium Act, the Condominium
Instruments or by law and shall not constitute an election of remedies.
(5)         In the event that any part or provision of this Resolution shall be adjudged
unlawful or unenforceable under Virginia law, the remainder of this Resolution shall nonetheless
survive and remain in full force and effect.