STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 27
USE AND MAINTENANCE OF BALCONIES
Relating to Rules and Regulations for balconies by Stratford Court and Stratford House Residents
WHERAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association" and
WHERAS, Article 5, Section 5.8 of the Bylaws establishes certain prohibited and limited uses for the Units and Common Elements and
WHERAS, the Board deems it necessary and desirable to establish additional general Rules and Regulations for the use of Units and Common Elements and
WHERAS, for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of all Owners and residents, the Board wishes to establish rules and regulations governing the use of the Association's balconies or limited common elements which include, but are not limited to, patios and balconies designed for the exclusive use of the Unit's Owner, as defined in the Association's Declaration.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following be adopted:
GENERAL
A. The Unit Owner of any unit to which a limited common element balcony or patio is appurtenant shall perform the normal maintenance for. such limited common element, including keeping it in a clean and sanitary condition. Owners shall also be required to keep the balcony or patio clear of snow, ice and any accumulation of water. In the event of an emergency situation where such an accumulation poses a threat of damage to any unit, management should be contacted to schedule this· clearing so that neighboring units may be alerted about potential issues. A service charge may be applied to the Unit Owner's account.
B. Unit Owners are responsible for their personal belongings. The Board, the Association and the Managing Agent are not responsible for the theft, loss or damage to any personal belongings on the balcony or patio.
C. Unit Owners failing to comply with the rules and regulations may" be assessed violation charges and fees.
USE OF BALCONIES AND LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS
A. Nothing shall be stored in the Units or limited common elements appurtenant to the Units that would increase the insurance rate for the Condominium or result in the cancellation thereof .. . Nothing is to be done or maintained in any condominium unit or limited common elements that is in violation of any law, ·or the Association's Declaration, Bylaws, Policies or Rules and Regulations (collectively the "Governing Documents").
B. Unit Owners must exercise due consideration at all times to ensure safety and that no harm can or possibly come to individuals or property as a result of the movement of items or debris being stored, used or decorating balconies and limited common elements. Owners are responsible for any and all harm caused by any objects which fall, are thrown or blown from balconies or patios.
C. Furniture that is deemed for the outdoors is permitted on balconies and patios provided it is of sufficient durability, appropriate weight and structural integrity that can endure exposure to the elements and remain secure during periods of long weather hazards and sudden, intense and also unexpected severe weather occurrences. Tempered glass tops of sufficient weight to withstand severe weather are allowed provided they are heavy enough to remain on the balcony or patio so as not to become a hazard. Items containing glass or other breakable materials or that are likely to become airborne are prohibited. Umbrellas, unless specifically approved by the Association, are also specifically prohibited.
D. There shall be no penetration of the balcony and patio walls, floor, ceiling, and/or railings. Articles such as planters, flower pots or boxes shall be allowed only on the inside of railings and shall not be placed or maintained on the outside of the patio or balcony wall, ledge, railing or suspended from balcony or ·patio ceilings. Articles shall not be attached to ceilings, railings, or wall of patios or balconies, with the exception that, during the holiday season from December 1st through January 15th, strings of small white or colored simple lights may be displayed on railings, provided that they are secured appropriately to stay in place-during severe weather. Flower pots should be placed on plant saucers so that water will not pass through to the units below. Care should be taken not to allow water to overflow from any pot or planter. Excess water that does overflow a pot or planter should be addressed so that it does not pass through to units, balconies or patios below.
E. Unit Owners shall be responsible for securing all items on balconies and limited common elements and shall be responsible for maintaining such to avoid any safety hazard. Unit Owners will be responsible for paying all medical expenses incurred by injured parties and reimbursing residents of the Association for any and all damages incurred as the result of failure to secure or maintain any items located on their patio, balcony and limited common elements. Unit Owners are encouraged to ensure that they have liability insurance in place to cover any injuries to persons or property caused by any items that may depart the balcony.
F. Drying or airing of clothes or other items is not permitted on balconies, patios or from windows within common areas of any building, or in any fashion visible from the outside.
G. Bird feeding from the balconies, patios or any other external part of the building is prohibited.
H. One United States flag per unit may be displayed within the boundaries of the patio or balcony. Flags must be no larger than 4' X 6' and in good condition. Flags must be secured in an appropriate manner as to avoid accidental falling or becoming a safety hazard and should be removed during periods of inclement weather. Flags may not block or impair the view or space of a neighbor's property and residents should take care to avoid loudly flapping flags or noise created that may pose a nuisance to a neighbor.
I. The use or storage of any barbecue grill that emits a flame including gas or charcoal is strictly prohibited on balconies or patios. Electric grills are allowed, but must be of significant weight or secured to remain in place as with all furniture on balconies or patios.
J. No bicycles or trash may be stored on the balconies, patios or any of the exterior common elements.
K. Shaking mops, sweeping materials or causing any liquids to flow over the edge of the balcony or patio is prohibited.
L. The paint color of doors, railings, balcony and patio framing or concrete shall not be changed.
M. Owners may allow their pet on the limited common patio or balcony provided the Owner is in control of the pet with leash or harness as if in all common areas. No pet shall be left unattended on the limited common element patio or balcony. If the pet is making noise, the pet shall be removed from the balcony or patio promptly. Pet excrements must be properly disposed of immediately.
N. Noise levels from all sources within the Unit, or on the balcony or patio, must be kept low enough to prevent disturbing one's neighbors, as stated in Policy Resolution #22.
O. Smoking is allowed on limited common elements, including patios and balconies, as long as not an illegal substance nor a nuisance to neighbors and ashes and butts are disposed of in a safe and sanitary manner. Under no circumstances should ashes or butts be flicked, dropped or allowed to blow off the balcony or left unattended.
P. If it comes to the attention of the Association that an item placed on a balcony is potentially dangerous or harmful, as determined by the Association, then it must be immediately removed. The Association will use best efforts to contact the Unit Owner. If the Unit Owner cannot be immediately contacted the Association may elect to remove the item at any time. Any items that do not meet the criteria established in these rules or in the design standards of The Association, or that the Board deems unsightly, shall be promptly removed from a patio or balcony or common elements and a service charge may be applied to the Owner's account.