STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 17 A
ENFORCEMENT OF SATELLITE DISH AND ANTENNA POLICY
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3 . 1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and WHEREAS, the Board of Directors recognizes that existing satellite dishes that are in violation of the policy located on the Common Elements (railings will be "grand fathered" as approved and;
WHEREAS, a dish has been "grand fathered" is sold, then the dish must be removed at the time of closing. Rental units must remove the dish when the tenancy changes and;
WHEREAS, all satellite dishes installed after the date the policy was sent to owners must meet all conditions in the policy, and;
WHEREAS, Existing satellite dishes of the size and type allowed by the Stratford Condominium Unit Owners Association Regulatory Resolution No. 1 7, Satellite Dish and Antenna Policy, that were in violation of the policy located on the Common Elements or earlier will be "grandfathered" as approved. This includes DBS, MDS and FWS antenna that are one meter (39.37 inches) or less in diameter. The "grandfathered" units are limited to and include the following:
11775 Stratford House Place, Unit 309
1855 Stratford Park Place, Units 1 12 and 2 1 2
1860 Stratford Park Place, Units 308, 309 and 406 ( 2 dishes)
NOW THEREFORE LET IT BE RESOLVED THAT: The Unit Owners whose antennas have been "grandfathered" will be cited with a letter of violation but allowed to keep their antenna(s) in place until they sell their unit. The letter will be logged in the real estate folder as a pending violation. When a unit housing a "grandfathered" antenna is sold, then the antenna must be removed at the time of closing. In the case of rental units, the renter must remove the antenna(s) when the tenancy changes. The letter of violation will be removed from the real estate folder when all antennas in violation are removed from the unit. All satellite antennas installed after November I , 2003 must meet all conditions in the Association's Satellite Dish and Antenna Policy.