STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 13
EXERCISE ROOM RULES FOR STRATFORD COURT CLUBHOUSE
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and
WHEREAS, the Board deems it necessary to establish rules for use of the exercise room in the Stratford Comt Clubhouse.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following Rules and Regulations for use of the exercise room be adopted:
1.  All Stratford Court unit owners (or their designated tenants) are entitled to use the exercise room. This privilege may be suspended by the Board of Directors for owners who are delinquent in their assessment payments for a period in excess of sixty (60) days.
2.  A current Stratford Comt facilities pass is required each time the exercise room is used.
3.  No one under sixteen (16) years of age is permitted in the exercise room. Exercise room users who are less than eighteen (18) years of age must provide a signed affidavit from a parent or guardian that the person is permitted to use the facility.
4.  Fitness center hours of operation will be posted at the Clubhouse. The initial hours of operation will be 6:00 a.m, to 11:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, Sunday and holidays.
5.  Each household may bring up to two guests. Guests must be escorted by a resident with a valid facilities pass who is eighteen (18) years of age or older. No resident under the age of eighteen (18) is permitted to bring guests to the exercise facility. The conduct of guests is the responsibility of the escort.
6.  No food, alcohol, drugs, or tobacco are allowed in the exercise room. Beverages in unbreakable, spillproof containers are allowed. Smoking is forbidden anywhere in Clubhouse.
7.  Each user is requested to wipe off the equipment after each use.
8.  Attire for the exercise room is shorts or warm-up suits, shirts, tights/leotards and appropriate footwear. Swimming suits and bare feet are prohibited.
9.  Personal belongings should not be left in the exercise room.
10.  All personal radios or tape players shall only be used with earphones.
13.  Any problems with the equipment or violations of the rules must be reported to the Association's management staff.
14. The maximum number of people permitted in the exercise room at any given time is
15. While users are waiting, the time limit on each piece of equipment is twenty (20) minutes.
16. Pets shall not be permitted in the Exercise Room at any time.