STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 9-2
PET POLICIES
Rules and regulations regarding pets
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium Instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association," and
WHEREAS, Article 5, Section 5.8 (a)(8) of the Bylaws establishes certain requirements related to the keeping of household pets; and
WHEREAS, for the health, safety, welfare, comfort, and convenience of all Owners, the Board wishes to establish additional regulations for the keeping of pets at the condominiums;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following pet policies be adopted by the Board:
I. GENERAL PET GUIDELINES
A. Pet Categories. Pets shall be categorized as follows:
i. Ordinary House Pets shall mean domesticated dogs and cats, caged domesticated birds, and aquarium fish. All ordinary House Pets are permitted, subject to the guidelines in this Resolution and all applicable laws.
ii. Unusual House Pets are prohibited. Unusual House Pets shall include, without limitation, those animals not generally maintained as pets including any reptiles, anthropoids, felines other than domesticated cats, canines other than domesticated dogs, rodents, mammals, birds, and other creatures other than those listed in Subsection I above, or not maintained in an aquarium.
B. Number of Pets. The number of Ordinary House Pets permitted per household, excluding those maintained in a water-filled aquarium, is two and shall not exceed one dog and one cat per unit or up to two cats per unit, but not two dogs per unit.
C. Size of Pets. No pet shall exceed a mature weight of 40 pounds. This provision also applies to any pets that visit the Condominium.
II.REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS
A. Pet Owners are responsible for the immediate removal and proper disposal of animal waste on all portions of the property.
B. Pets shall not be permitted upon the Common Elements of the Condominium unless they are carried or leashed. No leash may exceed six feet in length.
C. No pet may be leashed to any stationary object on the Common Elements.
D. Pet Owners are responsible for any property damage, injury or disturbances their pet may cause or inflict.
E. Commercial breeding of pets within the Condominium is prohibited.
F. All pets must comply with all licensing, registrations, and inoculations required by Fairfax County in order to keep a pet within the Condominium, and the pet must display appropriate tags evidencing ownership and compliance with all required licensing, registrations, and inoculations.
G. All pets that reside outside an aquarium or cage must be immediately registered with the Condominium at move in and records updated annually. Pet Owners shall provide the required supporting documentation along with a picture of the pet. After the implementation of this policy, Pet Owners shall pay a one-time registration fee of $SO for each new pet. Additionally, Pet Owners shall register each pet on the Stratford Condominium Building Link website and maintain the information annually. Pet Owners should contact Management to register pets. Frequently visiting pets, if over 30 days, must comply with all requirements and restrictions and pay applicable registration fees as listed herein.
H. Pet Owners will provide the name and contact information for an individual to be contacted in case of emergency.
I. Every female dog, while in heat, shall be kept confined in the Unit by its owner in such a manner that she will not be in contact with another dog nor create a nuisance by attracting other animals.
J. Dogs and cats shall not be left unattended outside the Unit, including limited Common Element balconies and patios.
K. No Owner shall inflict or cause cruelty in connection with any pet.
L. Owners shall not feed pets other than their own, unless permission has been obtained from the Owner.
M. Owners shall have full responsibility for notifying any renters or guests of their unit about all pet policies and ensuring that they are in compliance with such.
N. Nothing in this policy shall be interpreted to prohibit service dogs when such dogs are actively assisting a person with disabilities.
Ill. NUISANCES
The following shall be grounds for complaint and finding of a community nuisance:
1.  Pets running at large;
2.  Pets damaging, soiling, defecating on or defiling any private property (other than that of such pet's owner) or the Common Elements;
3.  Pets causing unsanitary, dangerous, unreasonably frightening, or offensive conditions;
4.  Pets making or causing noises of sufficient volume and frequency to interfere with other residents' rest or peaceful enjoyment of the Property.
5.  Causing or allowing any pet to molest, attack, or otherwise interfere with the freedom of movement of persons on the Common Elements, to chase vehicles, to attack other pets, or to create a disturbance in any other way;
6.  Failing to confine any female animal in heat to prevent the attraction of other animals;
7.  Using a vehicle as a kennel or cage.
IV. PROCEDURES FOR SOLVING PET PROBLEMS
Any Owner concerned with a pet related problem should do the following:
1.  Attempt to arrive at a solution to the problem with the pet owner in a courteous and helpful manner.
2.  If personal attempts at a solution fail, then a written complain should be filed with the Managing Agent in the Association Office. The complaint should document the problem as thoroughly as possible. Documentation should include identification of the pet(s) involved, a complete description of the problem or disturbance, and dates and time of disturbances (whenever possible) as well as a brief description of informal attempts to solve the problems.
3.  The Managing Agent will first attempt to obtain an informal solution to the problem. If such a solution is not possible; the Managing Agent will refer the matter to the Covenants Committee or the Board of Directors, which may initiate enforcement action in accordance with the provisions of Policy Resolution No. 5. The Association may have pets causing a nuisance, unreasonable disturbance or noise removed from the Condominium upon ten (10) days written notice from the Board of Directors, without convening a hearing or complying with the due process procedure in Policy Resolution No. 5.
4.  Suspected stray pets should be reported to Fairfax County Animal Control (for possible identification) prior to contacting the Association office.
5.  All bites, attacks by pets, or diseased animals should be reported to both the County and to the Association office.
6.  Penalties for violation of applicable governmental laws or ordinances may be enforced by the government without regard to any remedies pursued by the Association.
7.  In the event of emergency only, the parties involved may take any actions deemed prudent to resolve the emergency without regard to the above procedures. A written report should be made to the Association.
V. ENFORCEMENT OF POLICIES
1.  Violation Charges:
i. A fifty dollar ($50.00) charge may be assessed for every distinct violation of this policy.
ii. A ten dollar ($10.00) per day charge may be assessed against violations of a continuing nature.
These charges may be increased as allowed by law.
2.  Residents whose pets soil the carpet shall report this to Management as soon as possible so that Management can arrange to have the carpet cleaned in a manner consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations. This is necessary in order to maintain the warranty on the carpet. Accordingly, residents shall not attempt to clean the carpet but shall be responsible for the immediate removal of solid waste deposited by their pet.
3.  Any damage caused to Common Element property under the Association's control or maintenance responsibility by a pet shall be charged to the owner of the pet.