STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 1
BOOK OF RESOLUTIONS
relating to types of Board resolutions and manner of recording
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that "The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and
WHEREAS, there is a need for the Board of Directors to keep a record of the actions and decisions taken in the performance of its duties; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Directors to maintain a record of its decisions in addition to the customary Book of Minutes;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Board shall create a Book of Resolutions which shall be an orderly and indexed record of the Rules and Regulations of the Association and of the resolutions that are adopted by the Board, specifically Policy Resolutions, Administrative Resolutions, and General Resolutions as described below.
I. BOOK FORMAT
The Book of Resolutions shall be composed of three main sections, one for Policy Resolutions, one for Administrative Resolutions, and one for General Resolutions, such resolutions to be arranged in each section in order of their adoption. These resolutions shall be classified as follows:
1.  "Policy Resolutions" shall mean and refer to resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors which specifically relate to the long-term governance of the Association, including, but not necessarily limited to, actions affecting Owners' property rights, actions affecting Owners' obligations, and protection of the equity of the Association and Owners. All Policy Resolutions shall be recorded in Part One of the Book of Resolutions of the Association.
2.  "Administrative Resolutions" shall mean and refer to those resolutions adopted by the Board which deal with the internal operation and structure of the Association, including but not limited to, financial procedures, committee terms of reference, etc. All Administrative Resolutions shall be duly recorded in Part Two of the Book of Resolutions.
C. "General Resolutions" shall mean and refer to those resolutions adopted by the Board which relate to specific expenditures, single task actions, and other such general matters of the Board which have no continuing, far-reaching, or precedent-setting implications. General Resolutions shall also include resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors relative to questions of compliance by a Unit Owner with provisions of the Association's legal documents and the Book of Resolutions. General Resolutions shall be recorded in Part Three of the Book of Resolutions.
II. DEFINITIONS
'This Book of Resolutions shall incorporate by reference all definitions contained in the Condominium Act and the Condominium Instruments. The terms defined below are also used in this Book of Resolutions:
A. "Board" refers to Board of Directors.
B. "Association" refers to Stratford Condominium.
C. As the context may require, the terms "Owner" or "Unit Owner" shall refer to Unit Owners, members of their families, their guests, tenants, employees and invitees.


III. FORMAT OF RESOLUTIONS
The format of resolutions shall conform to the format set out on the attached Exhibit A
IV. RESPONSIBILITY
The secretary shall be responsible for maintaining the Book of Resolutions and providing to the Owners appropriate and prompt notice of any additions or changes.
V. INSPECTION
The Book of Resolutions shall be made available for inspection by any Owner or representative of one of the project's Mortgagees upon request, during normal business hours.
VI. CONFLICTS
If the Book of Resolutions conflicts with the Condominium Act or the Condominium Instruments, those documents shall prevail, according to the following hierarchy; the Condominium Act, the Declaration, the Bylaws, the Book of Resolutions.
VII. SEVERABILITY
The invalidity of any portion of the Book of Resolutions shall not impair or affect in any manner the validity, enforce-ability, or effect of the balance of the Book of Resolutions.
VIII. APPLICABILITY
Wherever in this Book of Resolutions reference is made to the Association, such reference shall include the Association and the Managing Agent where such authority is delegated by the Association to the Managing Agent.
IX. COMPLIANCE
All Owners shall comply with the provisions of the Book of Resolutions.
X. ENFORCEMENT
The Association, Declarant, any successor Declarant, or any Owner shall have the right to enforce, by any proceeding set forth herein or at law or in equity, all provisions of the Book of Resolutions as well as the Condominium Instruments. Failure by the Association, Declarant, or any Owner to enforce any of the provisions of this Book of Resolutions shall in no event be deemed a waiver of the right to do so thereafter. A waiver of such rights shall be effective only pursuant to an instrument in writing signed by the party to be charged with such waiver and shall be limited to the particular provision contained herein which is expressly set forth as being waived.
XI. VIOLATION AND NUISANCE
Every act or omission whereby any provision of the Book of Resolutions is violated in whole or in part is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be enjoined or abated, whether or not the relief sought is for negative or affirmative action, by Declarant, the Association, or any Owner. All Owners must observe and abide by all Resolutions posted by the Association and/or local authorities. If any Owners violate any of these Regulations, they will hold the Association harmless for any and all damages or losses that may ensue, and waive any and all rights and notices in connection herewith that they may have under the provisions of any applicable governmental laws and ordinances.
XII. VIOLATION OF LAW
Any violation of any applicable governmental law, ordinance or regulations pertaining to the ownership, occupation, or use of any portion of the Condominium is hereby declared to be a violation of this Book of Resolutions and is subject, at the discretion of the Board, to any or all of the enforcement procedures set forth herein.
XIII. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE
Each remedy set forth in this Book of Resolutions shall be in addition to all other remedies whether available at law or in equity, and all such remedies, whether or not set forth in this Book of Resolutions shall be cumulative and not exclusive.
XIV. REFERENCE OF PRONOUNS
All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular and plural as the identity of the person or persons or entities may require.
XV. METHOD OF ADOPTION
All resolutions shall contain an indication of whether they were adopted at a regular or special meeting of the Board, or by written consent, as well as the date of adoption.
XVI. AMENDMENT
The Association reserves the right to amend, modify, delete, or replace any provisions set forth in this Book of Resolutions at any time by a majority vote of the Board of Directors and recorded by resolution of the Board of Directors, unless specifically stated otherwise.