STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 17
SATELLITE DISH AND ANTENNA POLICY
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that 'The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and
WHEREAS, the Association must abide by the FCC rules as they apply to Stratford. The Association has determined that the attached policy is both fair to the residents and will provide proper enforcement for the Association, and;
STRATFORD CONDOMINIUM
UNIT OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION
REGULATORY RESOLUTION NO. 17
SATELLITE  DISH AND ANTENNA POLICY
WHEREAS, Section 55-79.53 of the Virginia Condominium Act, Code of Virginia (1950, ns amended) ("Act') and Article 9, Section 9.1 of the Bylaws of Stratford Condominium ("Bylaws'') require that each owner, tenant, or occupant 0f a Unit comply with the Act, the condominium instruments (including the Declaration and Bylaws) and the rules and regulations of the Stratford Condominium Unit Owners Association ("Association"), as may be amended from time to time:
WHEREAS, Article 5, Section 5.8(b) of the Bylaws grants the Association's Board of Directors ("Board") the power to adopt and modify rules and regulations governing the use of units and common elements;
WHEREAS, Article 5, Section 5.7 of the Bylaws provides that "no unit owner shall … alter any common clement or the exterior of the unit, including the doors and windows, nor shall any unit owner ... alter the exterior of any building, without the prior written consent of the Board of Directors or the Covenants Committee, as appropriate" and Article 5, Section 5.8(a)(4) provides th.it "no unit owner shall obstruct any of the common elements nor shall any unit owner place or cause or permit anything to be placed on or in any or the common elements ... without the approval of the Board .. , [ and] nothing shall be altered or constructed in or removed from the common elements except with the prior written consent of the Board of Directors or the Covenants Committee, as appropriate";
WHEREAS, Article 9, Section 1 of the Declaration for Stratford Condominium
("Declaration") provides that each unit owner is automatically subject to governance by the Reston Town Center Joint Committee ("Master Association"), and each unit owner i s automatically subject to the Reston Residential Center Declaration ("Master Association Declaration");
WHEREAS, Article 5, Section 5.1 of the Master Association Declaration provides that the Reston Town Center Joint Committee, through its board of directors, may make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations governing the use of the Properties;
WHEREAS, the Federal Communications Commission ("the FCC") has adopted a rt1le (''the FCC rule") limiting or preempting certain Association restrictions on U1e installation, maintenance and use of antennas for direct broadcast satellite service, local television broadcast, multipoint distribution service and fixed wireless signals via satellite; and
WHEREAS, the Association's Board of Directors wishes to adopt reasonable restrictions governing installation, installation and use of antennas in the best interests of the Association and consistent with the FCC rule;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Board adopts the following restrictions and regulations for the Condominium hereinafter referred to as the "Rules," to effective thirty (30) days from the date a copy of this Resolution is mailed to Unit Owners and which shall be binding upon all owners and their grantees, lessees, tenants, occupants, successors, heirs and assigns who currently or in the future may possess an interest in the Condominium, and which shall supersede any previously adopted rules on the same subject matter.
I. Definitions
A. Antenna--any device that is used for the receipt of video programming services, including direct broadcast satellite (DBS), multipoint distribution service (MDS). and local television broadcast signals (TVJ3S); and any device used to receive or transmit fixed wireless signals (FWS). A mast, cabling, supports, guide wires, conduits, wiring, fasteners, or other accessories necessary for the proper installation, maintenance, and use of an antenna shall be considered part of the antenna.
B. Common elements - all portions of the condominium other than the Units and' the limited common element(s) assigned to each Unit, as more specifically defined in the Association's Declaration. Common elements include, but are not limited to, open grassy areas, roofs anti exterior walls (including exterior walls between the unit and the unit's patio or balcony).
C. Exclusive-use area - Limited common clement, as defined in the Association's Declaration, in which the owner has a direct or indirect ownership interest and !hat is designated in the Declaration for exclusive use of owner. Limited common elements include, but are not limited to, the patio or balcony adjacent to a unit.
D.  Fixed wireless signals - Any commercial non-broadcast communications signal transmitted by wireless technology to and/or from a fixed customer location. Examples include wireless signals used to provide telephone  service or high-speed internet access to a fixed location. The term "fixed wireless signals" does not include, among other things, AM/FM radio, amateur ("HAM") radio, Citizens Band ("CB") radio, and Digital Audio Radio Services ("DARS") signals.
E. Mast--Structure to which an antenna is attached that raises the antenna height.
F. Owner--any Association unit owner or, for purposes of these Rules only, any tenant lawfully entitled to occupy a unit within the Condominium.
G. Telecommunications signals - signals received or transmitted by DDS, TVDS, MOS, or FWS antennas,
II. Installation Requirements
A. Antenna Size and Type.
I . DBS, M.Q.S, and FWS Antennas. DBS, MDS, and FWS antennas that are one meter (39.37 inches) or less in diameter may be installed by a unit owner. DBS, MDS, and FWS antennas that arc larger than one meter in diameter are prohibited.
2. Antennas that Transmit Signal.   All antennas that are capable of transmitting signals, including FWS antennas, must be labeled 10 provide notice of radio frequency ( RF) safely hazards and reference the applicable P CC-adopted limits on RF exposure; in addition, all such antennas must be professionally installed (see Section 11.E.6. below).
3. Prohibited Antennas. All antennas not specifically included within the definition of "antenna" set forth above, or otherwise covered by the FCC rule, are prohibited.
4. Number of Antennas. No more than one antenna for each type of service (as specified in Section 1.A. above) may be installed by an owner.
B.  Location. 
1. Inside Unit. If acceptable quality signals may be received by placing antennas inside a unit without unreasonable delay or unreasonable cost increase, then the antenna must be installed within the unit,
2. Acceptable Locations. Subject to the requirement in the prior paragraph, antennas shall be installed solely in the following locations (listed in decreasing order of preference): 
a. inside the owners unit;
b. within the boundaries of the owner's limited common element/exclusives areas, as designated in the Declaration and on the plats and plans of the Association (such as patios and balconies) (see Section 11.C. below); or

c. subject to the prior written approval of the Association's Board of Directors in accordance with Section VH.C. below, on common elements.
3. Unacceptable Locations/Encroachments. Except as otherwise provided herein, antennas shall not encroach upon common elements, any other owner's individual unit or limited common element, or the air space of another owner's limited common element or air space of the common elements. For instance, an antenna cannot be installed so that it extends out beyond the balcony or patio and into, on, or over common elements. Except as otherwise provided in Section 11.B.2.c. above, no antenna o f any size may be placed or installed o n the common elements, even if an acceptable quality signal ca01iot be received from within a unit or exclusive use area/limited common element
4. Shielded From View. Antennas shall be located in a place shielded from view from outside the Condominium or from other units to the maximum extent possible; provided, however, that nothing in this rule requires installation where an acceptable quality signal cannot be received or in such a manner that unreasonably increases the cost of installation,
C. Installation on Limited Common Elements/Exclusive Use Areas.
1. In General. Antennas shall be no larger nor installed higher than is absolutely necessary for reception of an acceptable-quality signal. Installation must comply with all applicable codes, take aesthetic considerations into account, and minimize the aesthetic and structural impact to the exterior and structure of the owner's unit, limited common elements or the common elements.
2 . Do Not Damage Properly. All installations shall be completed so that they do not materially damage the common elements, limited common elements, or individual units, or void any warranties of the Association or other owners, or in any way impair the integrity of buildings. Installation of antennas on a limited common clement docs not convert the limited common clement to individual property.
3. Preferred Locations, To the extent an acceptable quality signal can he obtained, the following limited common clement locations arc the preferred locations and installation sites (listed in decreasing order o r preference):
a. On the floor of the balcony below the railing;
b. Within the boundaries of the patio or balcony; or
c. Attached to the balcony railings, but only in such a way that no part of the antenna extends beyond the boundaries of the balcony.
4. Installer Qualifications. To protect the interests of the owner and the Association, it is recommended that any installer other than the owner should be licensed, bonded 1md insured. Insurance should meet the following minimum limits:
a. Contractor’s General Liability (including completed operations): $1,000,000; and
b. Workers' Compensation: Statutory Limits.
It is recommended that the owner have the installer provide the Association with a copy of the installer's license and insurance certificate prior to installation, if other than inside the unit. This recommendation is intended to ensure that antennas are installed in a manner that complies with building and safety codes and manufacturer’s instructions, and to protect the interests of the Association. Improper installation could cause damage to structures or pose a safety hazard to the Condominium's residents and to Condominium or personal property.
The Association’s management agent maintains a list of installers who have Indicated their ability to install antennas in compliance with all regulations and procedures. This list of installers is provided solely for the convenience of the owners and shall not be construed to indicate the Association's endorsement or recommendation of a particular installer.
5. Securing of Antennas. Antennas must be secured so !hey do not jeopardize the soundness or safety of any structure or the safety of any person at or near the antennas, including damage from wind velocity.
6. Drilling of Holes - Limited Common Elements. There shall be no holes drilled, made or put into structural components of limited common element/exclusive-use areas of the building unless this requirement prevents an acceptable quality signal or unreasonably increases the cost of antenna installation. The following devices shall be used unless their use would prevent an acceptable quality signal or unreasonably increase the cost of antenna installation, maintenance or use:
a. Devices that perm it the transmission of telecommunications signals through a glass pane without cutting or drilling a hole through the glass pane;
b. Devices, such as ribbon cable, that permit the transmission of telecommunications signals into a residence though a window or door without penetrating the wall;
c. The unit's existing cable entry path; or
d . Existing unit! wiring for transmitting telecommunications signals and cable service signals into the unit.
7. Drilling of Holes – Common Elements. No unit owner shall be permitted to drill, put or make holes into the exterior building walls or other common elements, or to otherwise penetrate through the common elements, without the prior written approval of the Board of Directors, and if approved, !be penetration shall be properly waterproofed and scaled by the unit owner in accordance with applicable industry standards and building codes. This rule is intended to prevent structural damage to the building and residences from water and vermin or insect intrusion. The Owner shall be responsible for repair of all damages caused by their, or their  equipment and/or any related penetration through common elements or limited common elements.
8. Use of Existing Coaxial Cable. If the owner currently subscribes to cable services and desire to use the unit's existing coaxial cable for the installation of the antenna, the Owner's use of the existing cable is at the Owner's sole risk and the Association shall not be responsible for any resulting damages or claims. The Owner must provide notice to the current cable service provider as required by the cable provider, currently believed to be at least seven days, before attempting to splice or connect to the existing cable, and must comply with the cable service provider's requirements.
D. Maintenance Requirements.
1 . Owner Responsibility. Unit Owners with antennas arc responsible for all related maintenance, repair and replacement obligations, and associated costs, including, but not limited to, the following:
1.  Place (or replace), repair, maintain, and move or remove antennas, to include, without limitation, when needed for the Association to do required maintenance to limited common elements or common elements;
2.  Repair damage to any property caused by antenna installation, existence, maintenance or use;
3.  Pay medical expenses incurred by persons injured by antenna installation, existence maintenance, or use;
4.  Reimburse residents or the Association for damage caused by antenna installation, maintenance, or use or the failure to perform any necessary maintenance, repair or replacement;
5.  Restore building components at antenna installation sites to their original condition;
a. Maintain all seals for any open penetrations created in relation to the installation of the antenna; and
b. Maintain, repair and replace any attachments associated with installation of the antenna.
c. Repaint or replace antenna if the exterior surface of the antenna deteriorates.
2. Maintenance Affecting Common Elements. Owners must obtain the prior permission of the Association's management agent prior to performing service or maintenance on the owner's antenna if such service or maintenance may potentially affect or involve the common elements.
3. No Safety Hazard. Owners shall not permit their antennas to fall into disrepair or become a safety hazard. Owners shall be responsible for antenna maintenance, repair and replacement, and the prompt correction of any safety hazard.
4. Repair of Detached Antennas. If antennas become fully or partially detached, owners shall remove or repair such antenna within 72 hours of the detachment. If the detachment threatens safety, the Association may remove the antenna immediately al the expense of the owner if the owner does not do so immediately.
E. Safety.
1. Compliance Standards. Antennas shall be installed and secured in a manner that complies with all applicable county and state laws and regulations, and manufacturer’s instructions. Owners shall, prior to installation or soon thereafter as reasonably possible, provide the Association with a copy of any applicable governmental permits that are required for safety reasons. In addition, upon request, the Owner shall make available to the Association a copy of the antenna manufacturer's instruction/safely manual.
2. Proximity to Power Lines. Unless the above-cited laws and regulations require a greater separation, antennas shall not be placed within 10 feet of power Jines (aboveground or buried). The purpose of this requirement is to prevent injury or damage lines.
3. Obstructions. Antennas shall not obstruct access to or exit from any unit, walkway, ingress or egress from an area, electrical service e<1uipment, or any other areas necessary for the safe operation of the Condominium. The purpose of tl1is requirement is to ensure the safety of Condominium residents and personnel and the safe and easy access to the Condominium's physical plant.
4. Grounding. Antennas shall be permanently grounded in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications to prevent electrical and fire damage.
5. Professional installation. Only professional installers shall install all antennas capable of transmitting signals, including FWS antennas. 'the purpose of this requirement is to minimize the possibility that the antenna will be placed in a location that is likely to expose Condominium residents and guests to the transmit signal at close proximity and for an extended period of time.
III. Antenna Camouflaging.
A. Color. Owners shall purchase their antenna in a color, to the extent available, that most closely matches the color of the structure to which the antenna will be installed, or in the alternative, shall paint their antenna so that the antenna blends into the background against which it is mounted, so long as the painting of the antenna will not void any warranties or prevent the reception of an acceptable: quality signal.
B. Screening. Camouflaging antennas through inexpensive, visually attractive screening is requiem if antennas are visible from the street or other units, so Jong as such not prevent the reception of an acceptable quality signal.
C. Wiring. Exterior antenna wiring shall be installed so as to be invisible, to the greatest extent possible, from other units, the common elements or the streets and parking areas, so long as this requirement docs not impair the installation, maintenance or use of the antenna. For instance, the owner can hide the wiring by using vinyl tubing that matches the color of the surface on which the wiring is installed, or such other camouflaging tubing, devices, or methods consistent with all applicable industry standards and manufacturer's instructions and warranties.
IV. Mast Installation.
A. Height /Encroachments. Mast height may be no higher than absolutely necessary to receive acceptable quality signs. However, masts shall not encroach upon common elements, any other owner's individual unit or limited common clement, or the air space of another owner's limited common clement or air space of the common elements. For instance, a mast cannot be installed so that it extends out beyond the balcony or patio and into, on, or over common elements; as a further example a mast cannot be so high as to extend beyond the upper boundary of the owner's unit and/or into the air space above the roofline.
B. Prior Notification/Approval. A mast that is  12 feet high or less and is consistent with the requirements of Section IV.A. may be installed subject to the ordinary notification process addressed below. Masts that would violate Section N.A., or which exceed I 2 feet in height must be approved by the Board of Directors before installation due to safety concerns posed by wind loads and the risk of falling antennas and masts. Applications for masts requiring Board approval must include a detailed description of the structure and anchorage of the antenna and the mast, us well as an explanation of the need for the proposed mast l f the installation of a mast exceeding 12 feet in height (but which is otherwise consistent with Section IV.A.) will pose a safety hazard to Association residents and personnel, then the Board may prohibit such installation, and the notice of rejection shall specify these safety risks. Nothing herein requires the Board to approve mas1s Iha! violate Section JV.A.
C. Professional Installation. Approved masts exceeding 12 feet in height must be installed by a licensed and insured contractor due to safety concerns posed by wind loads and the risk of falling antennas and masts.
V. Antenna Removal.
If an owner's antenna is removed for any reason, then the owner must restore the property, at his/her expense, to the condition that existed prior to the installation of the antenna.
VI. Association Maintenance of Locations Upon Which Antennas are Installed.
B. ln General. If antennas are installed on property that is maintained by the Association, the owner retains responsibility for antenna maintenance. Antennas must not be installed in a manner that will result in increased maintenance costs for the Association or for other residents. If increased maintenance or damage occurs, the owner is responsible for all such costs.
C. Temporary Removal of Antenna. If maintenance or repair requires the temporary removal of an antenna, the Association shall provide the owner with 10 days' written notice of the need for temporary removal of the antenna. Owner shall be responsible for removing or relocating the antenna before maintenance begins and replacing the antenna afterward. If they are not removed in the required time, then the Association may do so at the owner's expense. Tho Association is not liable for any damage to antennas or any related equipment, seals or wires caused by the Association's removal. In an emergency, prompt removal may be required or may be done at the owner’s cost.
VII . Notification Process / Prior Approval.
A. Prior Notification. Any owner desiring to install an antenna must submit prior written notification to the Board of Directors, care of the Association's management agent: The prior notification should he given as much in advance of installation as possible without unreasonably delaying the installation. The notification must include specific details regarding the intended placement of the antenna and related equipment and wiring, and must identify who (or what company) will be installing the antenna. Tenants must include their lease/rental agreement along with the written notice.
B. Non-Routine Installations/Clarifications. If the installation is routine (i.e., conforming to all of the rules in this Resolution), the installation may begin immediately after submission of the notice. If the installation is other than routine for any reason or if the owner is unsure whether the installation will comply with these Rules, the owner and the Board of Directors (or 1hc Association's management agent) must, prior to installation, establish a mutually convenient time to meet to discuss the proposed installation (usually within 72 hours after submission of the notice, if possible).
C. Prior Approval For Common Elements. If an Owner desires to locate an antenna on the common elements in accordance with Section II.B.2.c above, then the Owner must first obtain the prior written consent of the Board of Directors. The decision whether to allow placement of an antenna on common elements shall be in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall provide the Owner with a written decision as soon as reasonably possible, typically within 45 days after the Board receives the Owner's written application, which must contain a detailed description of the proposed antenna installation, a diagram of the proposed location, and an explanation why other permissible locations arc unacceptable.
VIII. Installation by Tenants.
These rules shall apply in all respects to tenants. The Association shall not be liable to any owner for a tenant’s failure to comply with this provision. An owner shall be responsible for any damages caused by a tenant.
IX. Enforcement.
A . Violation Charges, Costs, Attorney’s Fees. If these rules are violated, the Board of Directors may, pursuant to Section 55-79.80:2 of the Condominium Act and after providing notice and an opportunity to be heard, assess a rule violation charge of $50 for each violation or, if the violation is not corrected within a reasonable length of time established by the Board, a rule violation charge of $10 per day, for a maximum of 90 days, may be imposed for each day that the violation continues. The Owner may be responsible for paying the Association's reasonable attorneys' fees, costs, and other expenses incurred in the enforcement of these Rules, as allowed by law and the Bylaws. ln addition, the Association may bring an action for declaratory relief with the FCC or any court of competent jurisdiction.
B. Safety Hazard. If antenna installation or maintenance issues pose a serious, immediate safety hazard, the Association may seek injunctive relief to prohibit or seek removal of the installation if time permits; otherwise, the Association may take such action is necessary to prevent injury to persons or properly al the antenna owner’s expense in accordance with Article 9, Section 9. 1(e) of the Bylaws.
C. Non-Exclusive Remedies. The remedies set forth in this Section IX are not the Roar<l's exclusive remedies for violations of these Rules, but rather are in addition to any other remedies available to the Board us provided by law or the condominium instruments.
X. Severability,
If any provision of Ibis Resolution is ruled invalid by a court or the FCC, then any valid intent of that provision and the remaining provisions of this Resolution shall remain in full force and effect.
XI. Retroactive Application.
1.  On Common Elements. Any antennas previously installed on common elements without the written approval of the Board of Director must be removed within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Resolution. If a unit owner is unsure of whether his/her antenna is currently installed on the common elements, then it is that unit owner's responsibility to request confirmation or clarification from the Board of Directors.
2.  On Limited Common Elements/Exclusive Use Areas. Any antenna is previously installed on limited common elements/exclusive use areas must comply with this Resolution (except the requirement for prior notification), unless bringing the antenna into compliance with this Resolution unreasonably delays, prevents or increases the cost of insulation, maintenance or use of the antenna, or precludes reception of an acceptable quality signal.
XII. Compliance with Reston Residential Center's Rules and Regulations.
All members of the Association are also members of the master association, Reston Residential Center, by virtue of their ownership of units within the Stratford Condominium. Accordingly, all members of the Association (and all those lawfully entitled to occupy the units) are also responsible for knowing and abiding by any and all rules and regulations adopted by Reston Residential Center. For information concerning any applicable Reston Residential Center requirements for antenna installation and maintenance, unit owners should contact the Reston Residential Center's management office directly.