POLICY RESOLUTION NO. 22
NOISE POLICY
Rules and Regulations Regarding Noise
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws states that the "Board of Directors shall have all of the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Unit Owners Association and may do all such acts and things as are not by the Condominium Act, or the Condominium instruments required to be exercised and done by the Association;" and
WHEREAS, Article 3, Section 3.l(f) of the Bylaws authorizes the Board of Directors to adopt and amend rules and regulations governing conduct at the Condominium; and
WHEREAS, Rule 15 of the Rules and Regulations of Stratford Condominium states that: 
No unit owner shall make or permit any disturbing noises in any building or do or permit anything which will interfere with the rights, comforts or convenience of other unit owners. All unit owners shall keep the volume of any radio, television, musical instrument or other sound producing device in their units sufficiently reduced at all times so as not to disturb other unit owners. Despite such reduced volume, no unit owner shall operate or permit to be operated any such sound producing devices in a unit between the hours of eleven o'clock p.m. and the following eight o'clock a.m. if such operation shall disturb or annoy other occupants.
The Board of Directors deems it appropriate to supplement Rule 15 in order to better protect the right of peaceful enjoyment of the residents and to clarify acceptable and unacceptable conduct at the Condominium; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following noise policies are hereby adopted by the Board of Directors:
I. GENERAL GUIDELINES
Each unit owner and resident is entitled to peaceful enjoyment of their home at Stratford Condominium. Every effort should be made to respect the right of your neighbors to enjoy their homes in peace and quiet. Given that we live in close proximity to each other, it is important for all residents to be thoughtful in the manner in which you conduct your affairs in your unit and throughout the Condominium.
All unit owners and residents must act lawfully at Stratford Condominium. This includes conducting your activities at the Condominium in compliance with Fairfax County's Noise Ordinance. All residents are encouraged to report any noise ordinance violations that directly affect them to the Fairfax County police. The ordinance promotes an environment that is free from noise that jeopardizes the health or welfare or degrades the quality of life of the County's citizens. Similarly, the Association seeks to provide an environment that is free of noise that unreasonably interferes with the peaceful enjoyment of the unit by disturbing or annoying the Condominium's residents. Of course, all residents must be aware that when you chose to live in multiple unit housing, you must expect to be exposed to reasonable levels of sounds from your neighbors. Peaceful enjoyment does not mean that the residents of the Condominium are entitled into their units, however, objectively avoidable and unreasonably loud noise shall not be condoned at Stratford Condominium.
Unit owners are responsible for noise created by their family, guests, tenants and their tenant's guests. Every effort should be made to ensure that all persons allowed onto the property are respectful of the rights of all who reside at Stratford Condominium.
The terms of this Resolution shall supersede any conflicting terms in the Association's prior rules and regulations.
II. DEFINITIONS
Device shall mean any mechanism the produces noise.
Noise shall mean any sound which penetrates into a unit and that is loud enough that it unreasonably disturbs the occupant(s) of the unit.
Noise disturbance shall mean any unnecessary sound which annoys, disturbs, or perturbs reasonable persons with normal sensitivities; or any unnecessary sound which reasonably may be perceived to injure or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of any person.
Noise source shall mean any equipment, facility or person that emits or causes noise.
Annoying or Disturbing Noise shall mean noise which is loud enough that an objective reasonable person would be unduly agitated or offended by the noise. Disputes regarding the determination of whether a noise is annoying or disturbing shall decided in the sole discretion of the Covenants Committee and/or the Board of Directors.
III. USE OF UNITS AND COMMON ELEMENTS
I. Residents must exercise due consideration at all hours in the operation of radios, televisions, musical instruments, or any other device to ensure that the sound emitted will not escape their units so as to disturb others.
2. Residents (and their family or guests) shall not make or permit any unreasonably disturbing noises on their terraces, balconies, or anywhere on the Condominium property that would interfere with the rights, comfort, or convenience of other unit owners.
3. Residents who are moving in or out of the community must do so between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding Sundays and holidays.
4. Rugs and padding of sufficient thickness and quality that they will prevent the transfer of disturbing noise to the unit below shall be maintained on all floor surfaces ( excluding kitchens, bathrooms and closets) in units located over other units. Such floor coverings shall cover at least eighty percent (80%) of the floor surface for each floor where such covering is required.
5. The trash chute should not be used before 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.
6. No sawing, hammering or other noisy construction activities are permitted except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, excluding holidays and between the hours of I 0:00 a.m. and 5 :00 p.m. on Saturdays, excluding Sundays and holidays.
7. Care shall be taken to avoid creating unreasonably disturbing noise in the hallways, walkways, entranceways, stairways and other Common Elements. Sounds carry readily from the hallways through the unit doors so that is especially important not to emit or permit disturbing noise near unit entrances.
IV. ADMINISTRATION, AUTHORITY AND DUTIES
The provisions of this policy shall be administered and enforced by Stratford Condominium's managing agent. The managing agent may enter and inspect any unit at any reasonable time for the purpose of asce1iaining compliance with any provision of this policy when granted permission by the owner, or resident. Refusal to grant access to the unit shall constitute a violation of this Resolution and Article 5, Section 5.9 of the Bylaws.
 In the event that charges are imposed for any violation of this Resolution, the owner of the unit in question shall be provided with an opportunity for a hearing before the Covenants Committee prior to the imposition of violations charges as provided below.
Owners or residents who wish to rep01i noise violations should contact management in writing regarding their complaint. Such complaints should be sufficiently detailed to state the nature of the violation, the frequency, intensity, date(s), time of day/evening and what efforts had been made to abate the noise problem. If recordings have been made of the disturbing noise(s), a copy of the recording should be provided along with the complaint. Residents are strongly encouraged to discuss and attempt to amicably resolve noise violations with the violating party prior to contacting management.
V. NUISANCE NOISE
A. Loud and unnecessary noise:
It is unlawful for any person to make, continue to make, or cause to be made or continued, a noise disturbance within the County of Fairfax. Such conduct should be reported to the Fairfax County Police. In addition, such conduct is prohibited under this Resolution and is subject to adjudication as a violation thereof.
B. Specific prohibitions:
The following acts are examples of prohibited noise disturbances in violation of this policy. This list provides examples of prohibited conduct and is not an exhaustive list.
1.         Operating or permitting the use, or operation of any device that plays music, musical instrument, television, or any other device for the production of sound between the hours of 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. the following day in such a manner as to be unreasonably loud to persons in other units; and doing so in a manner that is disturbing or annoying to persons in other units at any time.
2.         Operating exercise equipment (such as treadmills, free weights, etc.) in a unit that makes noise or causes the operator to make noise that is plainly audible and disturbing to persons in other units at any time.
3.         Owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring any animal or animals which frequently or habitually bark, meow, squawk or make such other noise as is plainly audible and disturbing to persons in other units.
4.         Operating a motor vehicle in a manner such that it emits unreasonably loud noise (i.e., using an exhaust system that was designed to amplify rather than muffle exhaust noises, revving a loud engine) or failing to keep a vehicle in good working order so that it does not emit unreasonably loud noises (i.e., stuck horn, broken alarm system or a muffler in disrepair). 
Noise caused in the performance of emergency work or necessary maintenance, repair and replacement by the Association shall be exempted from the provisions of this policy.
VI. ENFORCEMENT OF POLICIES
A. Violation Charges:
A Fifty Dollar ($50.00) charge ( or such greater amount as the law may allow) may be assessed for every distinct violation of this policy. A Ten Dollar ($10.00) per day charge (or such greater amount as the law may allow) may be assessed against violations of a continuing nature.
B. Due Process:
Before any charges may be imposed, the unit owner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to be represented by counsel before the Covenants Committee. Either the violating or complaining party may appeal the decision of the Covenants Committee to the Board of Directors.
Notice of such hearing, including the charges that may be imposed, shall, at least fourteen days in advance thereof, be hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, to such unit owner at their unit address or such other address of record provided to the Association by the owner.
The amount of any charges so assessed shall not exceed fifty dollars for a single offense, or ten dollars per day for any offense of a continuing nature ( or such greater amount as allowed by law), and shall be treated as an assessment against such unit owner's condominium unit. However, the total charges for any offense of a continuing nature shall not be assessed for a period exceeding ninety days ( or such greater time or amount as allowed by law).
The hearing result shall be hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to such unit owner at the unit address or such other address the owner provided to the Association within seven days of the hearing.
C. Legal Action:
1.         The Board of Directors may direct the Association's counsel to enforce this Resolution. If legal action is initiated, the owner may be assessed all costs associated with enforcement, including the Association's attorney's fees, irrespective of whether a law suit is filed.
2.         Legal action may be taken to force the violating party to cease and desist from violating this policy, and/or to recover charges assessed for such violations.
3.         Failure by the Association to adhere to any provisions hereof shall not excuse a violation nor provide a defense against any enforcement action.
4.         The remedies provided herein shall be cumulative of all other remedies available to the Association in law or equity.